Rick:  Morty! You gotta come on. You got--... you gotta come with me.
Morty:  What, Rick? What’s going on?
Rick: I got a surprise for you, Morty.
Morty: It's the middle of the night. What are you talking about?
Rick:  Come on, I got a surprise for you.  Come on, hurry up.
Morty: Ow! Ow! You're tugging me too hard!
Rick: We gotta go, gotta get outta here, come on. Got a surprise for you Morty.
Rick:  What do you think of this... flying vehicle, Morty? I built it outta stuff I found in the garage.
Morty: Yeah, Rick... I-it's great. Is this the surprise?
Rick: Morty. I had to... I had to do it. I had— I had to— I had to make a bomb, Morty. I had to create a bomb.
Morty: What?! A bomb?!
Rick: We're gonna drop it down there just get a whole fresh start, Morty. Create a whole fresh start.
Morty: T-t-that's absolutely crazy!
Rick: Come on, Morty. Just take it easy, Morty. It's gonna be good. Right now, we're gonna go pick up your little friend Jessica.
Morty: Jessica? From my math class?
Rick:  When I drop the bomb you know, I want you to have somebody, you know? I want you to have the thing. I'm gonna make it like a new Adam and Eve, and you're gonna be Adam.
Morty: Ohh...
Rick: And Jessica's gonna be Eve.
Morty: Whhhh-wha?
Rick: And so that's the surprise, Morty.
Morty: No, you can't!  Jessica doesn't even know I exist! But—but, but forget about that, because you can't blow up humanity!
Rick: I-I get what you're trying to say, Morty. Listen, I'm not...  You don't got... Y-you don’t gotta worry about me trying to fool around with Jessica or mess around with Jessica or anything. I'm not that kind of guy, Morty.
Morty: What are you talking about, Rick?
Rick: You-you don't have to worry about me getting with Jessica or anything. Sh-sh-she— she, she, she's all for you, Morty.
Morty: I don't care about Jessica! Y-Yyyyyyyyyyou—
Rick: You know what, Morty? You're right.  Let's forget the girl altogether. She, she's probably nothing but trouble, anyways.
Robot Voice: Arming neutrino bomb.
Morty:  That's it... that's it, Rick. I'm taking the wheel.
Rick: Get off of me, Morty!
Morty: I'm taking charge of this situation, buddy!  I'm put—I’m, I'm, I'm, I'm puttin’... I-I’m, I’m, I’m not gonna stand around like some sort of dumb... dumb person and just le-let you ruin the whole world!
Rick:  Come on! What’s gotten into you? If you love Earth so much why don’t you marry it?  What are you, crazy? Alright, alright, Morty.
Rick: Alright. I'll-I'll land. I'll land. I'll land. I'll land the thing. I’ll land the thing. Big tough guy all of a sudden.
Rick:  We'll park it right here, Morty. Right here on the side of the ree... road here.
Morty: Oh, thank god.
Rick: You know what? That was all a test, Morty. Just an elaborate test to make you more assertive.
Morty: It was?
Rick: Sure. Why not? I don’t, I don't know. Y-you know what, Mo—
Robot Voice: Neutrino bomb armed.
Morty: Um...
Jerry: I see there's a new episode of that singing show tonight. Who do you guys think is gonna be the best singer?
Summer: Oh my God, his head is in his food. I'm going to puke.
Beth: Morty, are you getting sick? (Morty lifts his head, clearly exhausted,
and wipes food from his face) I told you not to practice-kiss the living room
pillow. The dog sleeps on it.
Morty: I wasn't kissing a pillow, mom. I just I didn't get a lot of sleep last night. Maybe my dreams were just too loud or something.
Summer: Or maybe you were out all night again with Grandpa Rick.
Jerry: What?
Beth: Dad?
Rick: What, so everyone's supposed to sleep every single night now? You realize that nighttime makes up half of all time?
Jerry: Damn it!
Beth: Jerry!
Jerry: Beth!
Summer: Oh my god, my parents are so loud, I want to die.
Rick: Mm, there is no God, Summer. You gotta rip that band-aid off now. You'll thank me later.
Jerry:  Okay, with all due respect, Rick— what am I talking about? What respect is due? How is my son supposed to pass his classes if you keep dragging him off for high-concept Sci-Fi rigamarole?
Rick: Listen, Jerry. I-I-I don't want to overstep my bounds or anything. It's your house. It's your world. You're a real Julius Caesar but I'll tell you something—tell you how I feel about school, Jerry. It's a waste of time.  Buncha people running around, bumping into each other. G-guy up front says, "two plus two." The people in the back say, "four." Then the—then the bell rings, and they give you a carton of milk and a piece of paper that says you can go take a dump or something. I mean, it's not a place for smart people, Jerry. And I know that's not a popular opinion, but it's my two cents on the issue.  This was a good breakfast, Beth. You really made the crap out of those eggs. I wish your mother was here to eat them.
Beth:  Oh, dad…
Jerry: What? For real?
Mr. Goldenfold: Alright, now, everybody get settled. Get away from the windows!
Mr. Goldenfold: Now, look, we're gonna be dealing with some real serious stuff today. You might have heard of it. It's called math? And without it, none of us would even exist, so let's jump right in. Two plus two.
All classmates except Morty: Four.
Morty: Jessica.
Mr. Goldenfold: Five plus five.
All classmates except Morty: Ten.
Morty: Jessica.
Mr. Goldenfold: Okay, good. It's time for the quiz.
Class: Awwwwww.
Mr. Goldenfold: Yeah, you know what?! Aw, too bad! Tough! First row, take one. Pass it back for me. The stakes are high in this room.  There's crucial things happening here every day. People getting smarter. Some of y'all getting dumber. Some of y'all ain't gonna see 3:00.
Jessica: Hi, Morty.
Morty: Whoa! Hi, Jessica.
Jessica: Can I show these to you?
Morty: Wow. Th-they're both great. Thank you!
Jessica:  You know what I named these? My little Morties.
Morty:  Uh, that's flattering... and a little weird.
Jessica: Do you know what I want you to do with them?
Morty: Rename them?
Jessica: Squeeze them. Manhandle them. Give them the business. See if you can shuffle them. I mean, really get in there and knock them around. No wrong answers.
Morty: Wow. Well, okay, Jessica. L-let's give this a shot.
Jessica: Mm. Oh, Morty. What are you doing to me?
Morty: Uh, I-I'm just doing my best.
Mr. Goldenfold: Morty! What are you doing to me?!
Morty:  Ah, Jessica.
Mr. Goldenfold: Morty!
Morty: Jessica.
Mr. Goldenfold: Five more minutes of this, and I'm gonna get mad.
Morty: Je-Jessica. Jessica.
Mr. Goldenfold: Not my fault this is happening.
Frank:  Well, well, well.
Morty: Uh, morning, Frank.
Frank:  "Morning"? What was what is that supposed to mean? You making fun of me? Are you trying to say my family's poor?
Morty: Oh, geez, Frank. I don't know if a knife is necessary. I mean, you know, y-you kind of had things handled without it.
Frank: You telling me how to bully now? Big mistake, Morty and now I'm gonna cut you, 'cause my family's rich.
Rick: There you are, Morty. Listen to me. I got an errand to run in a whole different dimension. I need an extra pair of hands.
Morty: Oh, geez, Rick. W-w-what'd you do to Frank?
Rick: It's pretty obvious, Morty. I froze him. Now listen I need your help, Morty. I mean, we got we got to get get the hell out of here and go take care of business.  It's important. Come on, Morty.
Morty: I don't know, Rick. I can't leave school again.
Rick: Do you have any concept of how much higher the stakes get out there, Morty? What do you think I can just do it all by myself? Come on!
Morty: Aw, geez. Okay. I guess I can skip history. What about Frank? I mean, shouldn't you unfreeze him?
Rick: I'll do it later, Morty. He'll be fine. Let's go.
Summer : Oh, my God. I'm about to walk past Frank Palicky. This is the story we'll be telling our children.
Summer: Hi, Frank.
Summer: AAAAAAAAAAAHHHHH!!!!!!!
Beth:  Scalpel.
Davin: Scalpel.
Jerry: Knock, knock.
Beth: Jerry?
Jerry: My manager gave me an hour for lunch, and I thought, "hey, why not swing by where your wife works?"
Tom:  We're losing him.
Tom:  Okay, he's back.
Beth: Jerry, please tell me you're here for an incredibly urgent reason.
Jerry: Well, it's lunch. I mean, it's one of three meals that have existed for millennia.
Tom:  Losing him.
Tom:  Stabilized.
Beth: Okay, I only ask, Jerry, because, as you know, my job involves performing heart surgery.
Jerry: Well, yeah, on horses.
Beth: Excuse me?
Jerry: Okay, Let's not rehash that fight. I sense that you're busy and will now be on my way.
Jerry: Whoa! What is this on the floor? Some kind of literature for a really nice-looking nursing home. Hey, honey, crazy idea bad pitch let's put your dad here. Let's put your dad in a nursing home.
Tom:  We're losing him.
Beth: Hey, Tom! We know when we're losing him. WE CAN HEAR THE BEEPS!
Rick: There she is. All right. Come on, Morty. Let's go.
Morty: Oh, geez, okay.
Morty: Oh, man, Rick. What is this place?
Rick: It's Dimension 35-C, and it's got the perfect climate conditions for a special type of tree, Morty, called a Mega Tree, and there's fruit in those trees, and there's seeds in those fruits. I'm talking about Mega Seeds. They're they're incredibly powerful, and I need them to help me with my research, Morty.
Morty: Oh, man, Rick. I'm looking around this place, and I'm starting to work up some anxiety about this whole thing.
Rick: All right, all right, calm down. Listen to me, Morty. I know that new situations can be intimidating. You're looking around, and it's all scary and different, but, you know, m-meeting them head on, charging right into them like a bull that's how we grow as people. I'm no stranger to scary situations. I deal with them all the time. Now, if you just stick with me, Morty, we're gonna be—
Rick: HOLY CRAP, MORTY RUN!!!
Rick: I never seen that thing before in my life. I don't even know what the hell it is! We got to get out of here, Morty! It's gonna kill us! We're gonna die! We're gonna die, Morty!
Rick:  Oh, Morty, take a deep breath. Breathe that breathe that fresh air in, Morty. Y-you smell that? That's the smell of adventure, Morty. That's that's the smell of-of-of-of a whole different evolutionary timeline.
Morty: All right, Rick, look how much longer is this gonna be? Shouldn't I be back at school by now?
Rick: Are you joking me? I mean, look at all the crazy crap surrounding us. Look at that thing right there.  What the hell is that thing? You think you're gonna see that kind of thing at school?  Look at it just lumbering around.  It defies all logic, that thing.
Morty: Yeah, Rick, I get it. We're surrounded by monsters. That's kind of the reason why I want to leave.
Rick: Ta-ta-ta-ta-ta-ta. Morty, you see this?
Rick: You see what we just stumbled upon, Morty? Any idea what that is down there?
Morty: The mega trees?
Rick: That's right, Morty the mega trees with the mega fruit on them and that's what I'm talking about, Morty. That's where my seeds are. If we would have done what you wanted, I would have never have found them, because you're so in love with school.
Morty: All right, all right. So, what's so special about these seeds, anyways?
Rick: You ask a lot of questions, Morty. Not very charismatic. It makes you kind of an  under-  underfoot figure.
Rick: Just take these shoes, Morty. They're  special grappling shoes. When you're wearing these things, these babies, you can basically just walk on any surface you want, Morty up, down, below, turn around to the left. These things really bring it all together.
Morty:  AAAAAAAHHHH!!!!!!
Rick: You have to turn them on, Morty! The shoes have to be turned on!
Beth: I am not putting my father in a home! He just came back into my life, and you want to grab him and stuff him under a mattress like last month's Victoria's Secret?
Jerry: I told you I was ordering you something for Valentine's Day. More importantly, your father is a horrible influence on our son.
Davin: Everything cool in here, Beth?
Beth: It's fine, Davin.
Davin: Okay, cool. You know, we did something great today. There's nothing more noble and free than the heart of a horse.
Jerry: Since we're fighting, if you ever have an affair with that guy, I will come to the hotel room and blow my brains out all over your naked bodies.
Beth: Look, I appreciate the stress you're under, but Morty was having trouble in school way before my dad moved in, and the only influence I can see Rick having is that, for the first time in his life, Morty has a friend.
Jerry:  Well, maybe you're right.
Beth: Uh, yeah, maybe I am. I'm my father's daughter. I'm smart. Why do you think I'm a heart surgeon?
Jerry:  Ahem, Horse heart surgeon.
Principal Vagina: Hello? Mrs. Smith? This is Principal Vagina, no relation. I wonder if you and Morty's father might be able to have a chat with me this afternoon?
Rick:  Morty, oh, you really d-did a number on  your legs right now. You know, you got to turn  the shoes on, Morty, for them to work. Yeah, look I turned mine on. I had no problem getting down here. It was a leisurely breeze.
Morty: I'm in a lot of pain, Rick!
Rick: Yeah, I can see that. But do you think you'll still be able to help me  collect my seeds, Morty?
Morty: Are you kidding me?! That's it, Rick! That's the last straw! I can't believe this! I'm sitting here with both of my legs broken, and you're still asking me about getting those seeds?! Ooh! Ow! Oh! Y-y-you're a monster. Y-you're like Hitler, but-but even Hitler cared about Germany or something.
Rick: Okay, hold on just a second, Morty.
Morty: Ooh! Ohh! Ooh! Hnngh! Hoo! Ooh! Ohh! Aaaaagh! Oooooh!
Morty: Ooh, Ohh, Ooh. Wow, Rick. That stuff just healed my broken legs instantly. I mean, I've never felt so good in my life. Thank you.
Rick: Don't worry about it, Morty. Just come help me get these seeds, all right, buddy?
Morty: Sure thing, Rick.
Rick: Not that you asked, Morty, but what just happened there is I went into a future dimension with such advanced medicine that they had broken-leg serum at every corner drugstore.  The stuff was all over the place, Morty.
Morty: Wow, that's pretty crazy, Rick.
Rick: There's just one problem, Morty one little hang-up. The dimension I visited was so advanced, that  they had also halted the aging process, and everyone there was young, Morty, and they had been forever. I was the only old person there, Morty.  It was like I was some sort of, you know, celebrity, walking around. I-I was fascinating to them. There were a lot of attractive women there, Morty, and they-they-they— they all wanted time with me. I had a lot of fun with a lot of young ladies, but I spent so much time there, my interdimensional portal device it's got no charge left, Morty. It's got no charge left.
Morty: What?!
Rick: It's as good as garbage, Morty. It's not gonna work anymore, Morty.
Morty: Oh, geez, Rick, that's not good. W-what are we gonna do? I-I have to be back at school right now. How are we gonna get back home?
Rick: There's ways to get back home, Morty. It's just it's just gonna be a little bit of a hassle. We're gonna have to go through interdimensional customs, so you're gonna have to do me a real solid.
Morty: Uh-oh.
Rick: When we get to customs, I'm gonna need you to take these seeds into the bathroom, and I'm gonna need you to put them way up inside your butthole, Morty.
Morty: In my butt?
Rick: Put them way up inside there, as far as they can fit.
Morty: Oh, geez, Rick. I really don't want to have to do that.
Rick: Well, somebody's got to do it, Morty. Th-these seeds aren't gonna get through customs unless they're in someone's rectum, Morty
Morty: Uuuh.
Rick: And they'll fall right out of mine. I've done this too many times, Morty. I mean, you're young. Y-y-you've got your whole life ahead of you, and your anal cavity is still taut, yet malleable. You got to do it for grandpa, Morty. Y-  you've got to put these seeds inside your butt.
Morty: In my butt?
Rick: Come on, Morty. Please, Morty. You have to do it, Morty.
Morty: Oh, man.
Principal Vagina: The fact is, your son, Morty, has attended this school for a total of seven hours over the last two months.
Beth: What? Why didn't you notify us?
Principal Vagina: I done been notifying you. Have you not been getting the messages I've been leaving with Morty's grandfather?
Jerry: Boom! Told you! In your face! He is ruining our child! Wait, what am I celebrating?
Principal Vagina: Yeah, see, I thought something was fishy there, because it's usually Morty's grandpa that's taking him out of school.
Beth: Summer?
Summer:  What kind of God lets this happen?
Principal Vagina: We had a little incident. A student was frozen to death.  And there's no evidence that a Latino student did it! Everyone wants to take this to a racial place. I won't let them.
Announcer: The glarp zone is for flarping and unglarping only.
Alien: So, I told him, "give me the blimfarx," you know? This-this guy he doesn't understand interstellar currency.
Alien: It's, like, I'm trying to eat a flimflam like, that's what we eat on Girvonesk.
Announcer: The glarp zone is for flarping and unglarping only.
Rick:  I don't like it here, Morty. I can't abide bureaucracy. I don't like being told where to go and what to do. I consider it a violation. Did you get those seeds all the way up your butt?
Morty: Yeah, Rick. Let's just get this over with, okay? I mean, these things are pointy. They hurt.
Rick: That means they're good ones. You're a good kid, Morty. Those mega seeds are super valuable to my work. You've been a huge help to me. I'm gonna be able to do a-
all kind of things with them. It's gonna be great, Morty. A-  all kinds of science.
Gromflomite: Okay, next through.  Except you. You go over there.
Rick: Why does he have to go over there?
Gromflomite: Random check. He's got to go through the new machine.
Rick: What new-  what new machine?
Gromflomite: It's a new machine. It detects stuff all the way up your butt.
Rick: Run, Morty! Run!
Morty: Aaaaaah!
Gromfomite: Red alert!
Morty: Ohhhhh!
Morty: Ohhhhhh!
Morty: Aaaaah!
Rick: Don't think about it!
Rick: Ooh! Oh, nice, Morty! The student becomes the teacher.
Morty: Whoooooo!
Alien: Aah! Aw, hell, no, dawg. You know me I'm just trying to—
Rick: I need to type in the coordinates to our home world, Morty. Cover me.
Morty: Oh, man. I mean, you know, I-I don't want to shoot nobody.
Rick: They're just robots, Morty! It's okay to shoot them! They're robots!
Glenn: Aaaaah! My leg is shot off!
Other Gromflomite: Glenn's bleeding to death! Someone call his wife and children!
Morty: They're not robots, Rick!
Rick: It's a figure of speech, Morty. They're bureaucrats. I don't respect them. Just keep shooting, Morty. You have no idea what prison is like here!
Morty: Holy crap! This is insane!
Rick: Come on, Morty! We got to get the hell out of here!
Jessica: Wow. Did you just come into the cafeteria through a portal?
Morty: Uh, yeah. Well, you know, my-my Ferrari's in the shop.  Just kidding.
Jessica: You're Morty, right?
Morty: Yeah.
Rick: You can get his number later. Come on, Morty. We got to get out of here. You got to get those seeds out of your ass.
Jerry: Oh, look, honey. It's our son with Albert Ein-douche.
Beth: What?
Jerry: I'm an angry father, not an improviser.
Rick: Oh, hi, Jerry. Oh, my goodness, Morty! What are you doing out of class? We talked about this. Your-your parents and I are very disappointed in-in this behavior... No? No takers?
Rick: You guys should really not be touching that stuff. It's beyond your reasoning.
Jerry: You're beyond our reasoning!
Rick: Takes one to know one.
Beth: Dad, how could you make my son miss an entire semester of school? I mean, it's not like he's a hot girl. He can't just bail on his life and set up shop in someone else's.
Rick: What what are you guys doing with my stuff?
Beth: We're moving you to a nursing home.
Rick: A nursing home? What are what are you, nuts? I'm a genius. I build robots for fun.
Jerry: Well, now you can build baskets and watch Paul Newman movies on VHS and mentally scar the Boy Scouts every Christmas.
Beth: What does that mean?
Jerry: It's personal.
Morty: Dad, mom, come on. Rick just needed my help is all.
Jerry: Morty, stay out of this. You are obviously not capable of judging these situations on your own.
Rick: What are you trying to say about Morty? That he's stupid or something?
Beth: Oh, don't high-road us, dad. You know fully well that Morty is the last child that needs to be missing classes.
Rick: I-I-I don't know what you mean by that. Can can can you be a little bit more specific?
Jerry: Oh, for crying out—he's got some kind of disability or something. Is that what you want us to say?
Morty: I do?
Jerry: Well, duh doy, son. Look, I love you, Morty, but we both know you're not as fast as the other kids, and if you want to compete in this world, you got to work twice as hard.
Morty: Aw, geez, dad. Y-you know, that's a lot to drop on a kid all at once.
Rick: Morty, t-tell your parents the square root of pi.
Morty: Oh, come on, Rick. You know I can't.
Rick: The square root of Pi, Morty. Go!
Morty: 1.77245385... Whoa!
Beth: What the hell?
Jerry:  Holy crap. He's right.
Rick: Morty, tell your parents the first law of Thermodynamics.
Morty: "The increment in the internal energy of a system is equal to the increment of heat supplied to the system." Wow! I'm so smart!
Jerry: But—
Rick: I told the both of you school is stupid. It's not how you learn things. Morty's a gifted child. He has a special mind. That's why he's my little helper. He's like me. He's gonna be doing great science stuff later in his life. He's too smart for school. He needs to keep hanging out and helping me.
Beth: Jerry, I don't want whatever's happening here to stop.
Jerry: No, I-I understand. Uh, maybe we overreacted. But he has to keep going to school.
Rick: Okay, Jerry. You drive a hard bargain, but what am I supposed to do? Say no? You-you really wear the pants around here. I just want you to know, between us, from now on, it's gonna be clear communication.
Summer:  Frank Palicky was frozen to death today!
Rick: No idea what you're talking about.
Jerry: Okay. Well, uh, Morty, it's your bedtime in an hour. Don't stay up all night again. This is good, though. This can work. I think we can be a family and now, Beth, if you'll have me, I would love to have you.
Beth: You know what? Okay.
Morty: Holy cow, Rick. I didn't know hanging out with you was making me smarter.
Rick: Full disclosure, Morty it's not. Temporary superintelligence is just a side effect of the mega seeds dissolving in your rectal cavity.
Morty: Aw, man.
Rick: Yeah, and once those seeds wear off, you're gonna lose most of your motor skills, and you're also gonna lose a significant amount of brain functionality for 72 hours, Morty.
Starting right about now.
Morty: Ohh, man.  Oh, geez! Ohh.
Rick: I'm sorry, Morty. It's a bummer. In reality, you're as dumb as they come and I needed those seeds real bad, and I had to give them up just to get your parents off my back, so now we're gonna have to go get more.  And then we're gonna go on even more adventures after that, Morty and you're gonna keep your mouth shut about it, Morty, because the world is full of idiots that don't understand what's important, and they'll tear us apart, Morty but if you stick with me, I'm gonna accomplish great things, Morty, and you're gonna be part of them, and together, we're gonna run around, Morty. We're gonna do all kinds of wonderful things, Morty. Just you and me, Morty. The outside world is our enemy, Morty. We're the only friends we've got, Morty. It's just Rick and Morty. Rick and Morty and their adventures, Morty. Rick and Morty forever and forever. Morty's things. Me and Rick and Morty running around, and Rick and Morty time. All day long, forever. All a hundred days. Rick and Morty forever 100 times. Over and over, rickandmortyadventures.com. All 100 years. Every minute, rickandmorty.com.
Jerry: *singing* Last King Christmas last arrived!
Jerry: *singing* In the Christmas Christmas! *stops singing and smells the ham* Mmm... Jerry, you are really giving it to this ham.
Jerry: Um, Merry Christmas? *puts his hands on his hips* Helloooo? My parents are coming over for the first time in years! Can we stow the gadgets and look alive?
Beth: Alive? For your parents?
Jerry: Good one.
Beth: Hey man!
Jerry: You ‘hey man’! This holiday is about humanity.
Morty: *not looking up from his tablet* You know, I thought it was about being born half-God or something.
Jerry: Okay, whatever. All electronic items are going in the stocking. Now.
Morty: *hands over his tablet* Ohhhh...
Summer: Dad, I'm not giving you my phone.
Jerry: Put it in the stocking, Summer, or I'm joining Facebook.
Rick: *offscreen* Ho ho ho, everybody.
Jerry: More like whoa whoa whoa. What is this? My parents are coming!
Rick: Calm down Jerry, this is Ruben, an old friend.
Ruben: Pearl Harbor.
Rick: I check in on him once a year and give him a little *burp* medical *burp* evaluation.
Beth: Aw, Dad... That is so sweet.
Jerry: *squinting suspiciously* Yeah, it is... I don't get it.
Ruben: Korea.
Rick: Don't worry about your C-C-Christmas, Jerry. *leads Ruben away* Ruben and I'll be in my workshop while you have another day in Phil Collins’ proverbial paradise.
Jerry: Huh. You think you know a guy.  Okay, there's my parents. Now remember, no TV, no phones, no laptops, we are connecting this Christmas, like old-school Jews on a Saturday. *opens the door* Hey hey!
Leonard: Merry Christmas, son.
Jerry: Oh, hi. Can I help you?
Joyce: Jerry, this is Jacob. *takes Jacob by the arm* Didn't you get our text message?
Beth, Summer, and Morty: No.
Jacob: You must be Jerry! That's a fine lookin’ apron. William Sonoma?
Jerry: *smiling uncomfortably* I wish... But thank you. *closes the door* So... you're a...friend of the family...?
Leonard: *puts an arm around Jacob's shoulders* The way we see it, he's a part of the family.
Jerry: Wow!
Joyce: After your father's brush with cancer and losing your uncle, we looked at life and wondered how have we spent it? And how do we spend the rest of it? What are we going to be when we die? A list of fears and questions, or a collection of real experiences?
Beth: Holy crap, Joyce. That's amazing.
Leonard: Then Jacob came into our lives. We’re learning to live again.
Jacob: All three of us.
Jerry: ...Cool... Eggnog?
Jacob: Now we are talkin’! This man's got the apron and the eggnog, huh?
Rick: Hi Joyce, Leonard. *looks at Jacob* Hello there.
Jacob: Merry Christmas, man.
Rick: Morty! A moment of your time?
Rick: He's in bad shape, Morty.
Morty: Aw geez, Rick! What did you do?
Rick: Gee, thanks Morty. What kind of monster do you think I am? I-I'm sittin’ here trying to save the guy's life!  I want you to find Dr. Xenon Bloom. He'll know what's goin’ on.
Morty: *extremely nervous* Uh... W-W-Where do I find Dr. Bloom?
Rick: In Ruben. *shoves a glass oxygen mask onto Morty's head*
Morty: Ruben... Minnesota?
Rick: Ruben on the table, Morty! *hooks up the backpack to the helmet* Look, I-I don't have time for you to wrap your little walnut around everything. *pulls a shrink ray into view and plugs it in* Hold your breath until the process is over or your lungs will collapse.
Morty: W-What proc—
Beth: Hey Dad, where's Morty?
Rick: He's busy.
Rick: Morty, can you hear me? Head North!
Morty: Rick... Where am I?
Rick: *adjusts his own headset as he stands in the garage* Depending on my aim, you should be just south of the entrance.
Morty : The entrance to what?
Rick: Welcome, Morty.  Welcome...  ...to Anatomy Park!
Rick: It's a little business venture I’ve been cookin’ up on the side with Dr. Bloom.  An amusement park inside a human body. Science isn't cheap, Morty. This should really help put a dent in the overhead.
Morty: Oh my God! This is insane! Spleen Mountain? Bladder Falls? Pirates of the Pancreas?
Rick: You got a problem with that last one, Morty?
Morty: Huh? No, no, I'm just reading them out loud in the order I'm seeing them.
Rick: Okay, alright, if I sounded a little defensive, it's because Pirates of the Pancreas was my baby.
Rick: I-I got a lot of push-back when I pitched it, Morty. I guess I'm still a little defensive. Let's just find Dr. Bloom, alright? I-I'm picking up a distress signal in the liver, Morty.
Rick: Proceed to the liver.
Automated voice: Arriving at ‘Liver’.
Morty: *stumbles forward and hits his helmet on the window* Ow!
Automated voice: Mind the gap.
Morty: It's really scary in here, Rick.
Rick: Liver's under maintenance. Ruben's seen some rough years, Morty. Don't judge. You don't agree to have a theme park built inside you if your life's going great.
Morty: OOOOHHH! Rick, it's a monster!
Rick: No no, Morty. The only monster here is alco— *belch* —holism.  That is an animatronic werewolf.
Poncho: Who are you? Answer me! Where did you come from?
Morty: Mmm! M-M-My-my-my Grandpa Rick sent me!
Dr. Bloom: Poncho! That's quite enough.
Dr. Bloom: Morty, that's Poncho.  This is Roger and Annie.
Morty: *staring sheepishly at Annie* Oh...
Dr. Bloom: And I am Dr. Xenon Bloom.
Rick: Hey Bloom, it's Rick. What the hell's goin’ on here?
Dr. Bloom: I don't know why, but the entire security system has shut down. And I'm afraid the exhibits are unlocked.
Morty: Exhibits?
Dr. Bloom: Anatomy Park's greatest attraction, young man, isn't the music or the food or the Pirates of the Pancreas.
Rick: Watch it.
Dr. Bloom: It is first and foremost a living museum of humanity's most noble and ferocious diseases.
Morty: Diseases?!
Poncho: Hey Doc, I have news for ya.  Your living museum is officially a wild safari!
Roger: Hepatitis A! Run!
Jacob: Oh... *leans over and wipes some food from Joyce's mouth with a napkin* The food goes in your mouth, girl!
Jerry: Aha... I'm sorry Jacob, I guess I'm still confused about the precise nature and origin of your relationship with my parents. Are you like a—Are you like their caretaker? Is that what it is?
Joyce: We can go into detail later, son.
Leonard: Now wait, there, there's no point to secrecy. Let's all live and die honestly. Your mother and I have shared forty years of each other, mind, body, and soul.  And when minds and souls are joined for eternity, and when eternity is at the door, it's an invitation to let go of the body, and an opportunity to share and experiment.
Jerry: Dad, please, what are you saying?
Beth: Whatever it is, it's beautiful, Leonard. *glares at Jerry* And we support you.
Jerry: Speak for yourself! Because it, heheh, it sounds like you're about to say Jacob is your lover.
Leonard: No no no no.  Jacob is your mother's lover.  I watch them. Sometimes from a chair, sometimes from a closet. Almost always dressed as Superman.
Jacob: Oh... *reaches across the table and puts a hand atop theirs*
Jacob: Jerry, this ham's got to be all you, right? It's in-cred-i-ble.
Summer: *smirks* Happy human holiday, Dad.
Poncho: AHHHHHH!
Dr. Bloom: Hepatitis won't follow us into the respiratory system!
Roger: That's strange... *taps the meter* Air flow is down twenty percent.
Dr. Bloom: So the brain isn't getting enough oxygen. That's why security is offline.
Morty: W-Well, I guess we better check it out.
Alexander: Hey, wait for me! *removes the head of his costume*
Dr. Bloom: *points his cane at Alexander* Put that back on!
Roger: If we got up to the bronchial catwalk, we could look for blockage.
Morty: *raises his hand* I'll go. *glances at Annie* Heheh...
Poncho: Don't be a hero, kid.
Morty: I'm not. I'm doin’ it because it's fun. *he hops from frond to frond*
Poncho: *cocks his gun* We shouldn't be here.
Dr. Bloom: Whatever you do, don't fire that thing in here! We must save Ruben. This is my life's work.
Annie: Ah!
Dr. Bloom: It's alright, my dear. Nearly all human lungs contain a strain of this bacteria, but the scar tissue... *prods it with his cane, seeing something has escaped from the scar tissue* ...keeps them dormant. *looks up toward Morty, who is getting close to the catwalk* Morty! Get down!
Morty: Whoa! *grabs hold of the catwalk as a fluid drips down onto it* Whoa!
Morty: Oh! What are those things?!
Dr. Bloom: Tuberculosis, coming in fast!
Poncho: *raises gun and starts shooting at the disease* Not faster than a bullet! Ahh!
Dr. Bloom: *grabs Poncho's arm* No! Do you know what you've done?!
Dr. Bloom: Get to the digestive tract! He's coughing!
Alexander: Waaaah! Don't let me die!
Rick: Just take a deep breath, Ruben.
Morty: You're not gonna die! What's your name?
Alexander: My name is... *his hand slips from Morty's and he's coughed up* ALEXANDEEEEEEEER!
Morty: Rick! Ruben's got tuberculosis!
Rick: Oh, great work, Morty. *pulls a massive syringe form his lab coat* I'll just cure it, and then—
Rick: Okay. Well I can't cure death. This is bad, Morty. You're trapped in a dead man. Listen, if the situation keeps darkening, do yourself a favor—
Rick: —and hop by Pirates of the Pancreas. Obviously I'm biased, but, I think it's great, Morty.
Rick: *sitting in a lounge chair, pulls out a flask* It's a bunch of pirates runnin’ around a-a-a- pancreas. We don't whitewash it either, Morty. The pirates are really rapey. The top priority is to get you guys out of there, but I'm just saying, if that becomes impossible—
Rick: —please, you gotta treat yourself.
Morty: Geez, what's that horrible smell?
Dr. Bloom: You mean the Panda Express? *chuckles* Kidding, I-I'm kidding.  The body is beginning to constrict and fill with gas. We’re inside a corpse, my boy. Anatomy Park is doomed.
Morty: Forget about the park, Doctor! How do we get out?!
Dr. Bloom: The digestive tract is the evacuation route. Get it? There's an emergency station in the colon with a ray that can enlarge us all.
Morty: Everybody! Get to the colon!
Poncho: Now I'm takin’ orders from a twelve-year-old boy?!
Dr. Bloom: Morty. The scar sacs containing the tuberculosis were sabotaged. This disaster was an inside job. Keep your eyes on Annie. She was written up several times by her manager at the churro stand.
Roger: Intestines are ahead to the left. Then the right. Then left. Et cetera.
Morty: Hey, just so you know, I-I'm actually fourteen. So, you know...
Annie: What?
Morty: Not twelve.
Annie: Okay.
Morty: Because he just said I was twelve.
Annie: Oh. Good for you.
Rick: Oh. Oh, Morty. Strike one.
Morty: *slumps forward* Nnn...
Animatronics: *singing* It's a road of laughter, a trail of food. It's a pathway that breaks up the fat in food. It's a tube in the chest and it sends out the rest. It's a small, small intestine!
Roger: It goes on like this for miles...
Dr. Bloom: *excitedly* And then we get to the large intestine!
Poncho: Shh. *shines flashlight* I hear something.
Dr. Bloom: *whispers* Don't move. Gonorrhea can't see us if we don't move.
Dr. Bloom: Wait! I was wrong! I was thinking of a T-rex.
Annie: We’re sitting ducks!
Morty: Doc! Didn't you say the body was filling up with gas?
Dr. Bloom: Yes. Why?
Poncho: Kid! You're a genius! *pulls out a match*
Dr. Bloom: Are you mad?!
Morty: *grabs Annie's hand* Everybody! In here!
Poncho: Hey Gonorrhea! How's this for a burning sensation?
Summer: *singing* Drummer, drum, drum, drum! Drummer, drum, drum drum drum, Christmas drums!
Leonard: Oh, Summer. Sing it! Haha.
Summer: Christmas drums being played by a boy!
Beth: Jerry, come on. This is what you wanted.
Jerry: I get it, Beth. Be careful what you wish for. I'm being punished for taking your iPad.
Beth: What? Jerry, let that stuff go, okay? I'm sorry I was a bitch earlier. Let's just be here.
Ethan: Ugh... Summer!
Summer: *stands up* Ethan, what are you doing here?
Ethan: I’ve been texting you for hours. What the hell?!
Summer: I don't have my phone! I'm doing a human holiday!
Ethan: Did you even consider how that might make me feel?
Summer: How you feel? Why is everything always happening to you?!
Jerry: *stands up* Summer, do you have a boyfriend?
Ethan: Yeah, do you, Summer?
Summer: I don't know Ethan, do I?
Jacob: *stands up and puts a hand on Ethan and Summer's shoulders* Jerry, no disrespect, but you really need to connect more with your family, man.
Roger: I should be able to access the backup generator to get the growth ray back online. If it works, we'll be regular-sized in a few minutes. I just hope Ruben's not in a room with white carpets or upholstery.
Poncho: What the hell is that?
Dr. Bloom: The sphincter dam. We built it when Ruben became incontinent, but it was not designed to hold a corpse-load.
Roger: Almost got it. Everybody, move inside the circle!
Morty: Poncho? What is this in your backpack?
Dr. Bloom: That's bubonic plague! What are you doing with that, Poncho?
Poncho: Everybody get back!
Dr. Bloom: Poncho, you son of a bitch! You released the tuberculosis so you could steal from me?
Poncho: *laughs* That's right, baby. A lot of people would pay top dollar to decimate the population. I'll take the highest bidder. Al Quaeda. North Korea. Republicans! Shriners! Balding men that work out! People on the Internet that are only turned on by cartoons of Japanese teenagers! Anything is better than working for you! *points the knife at Dr. Bloom* You pompous, negligent, iTunes Gift Card as a holiday bonus-giving—
Morty: AHHHHH!!!
Poncho: Ah! Eh! Get! Get off! *he backs up and falls over the railing* Ahhhh!
Annie: You guys!
Roger: It's gonna burst! *urges the others on* Go! Go, go, go! *pulls a lever before trying to run after the others but catches his foot in some of the machinery* My foot is stuck!
Annie: No!
Roger: This is okay! It's okay, just go! Tell my family I love them! They may be hard to find because my wife kept her last name and she made the kids take it too, so, I dunno, you could goo—
Annie: No!
Jacob: Let me ask you something Ethan. Where's the anger coming from, man?
Ethan: From Summer being a total bitch!
Jacob: Where's the anger coming from?
Ethan: ...My brother... took me fishing once...in the bushes... *voice begins choking up as tears fill his eyes* I can't... I can't! *covers his eyes as he starts to cry* He made me feel like a girl! *sobbing openly* I'm... m-made me a girl!
Jacob: He didn't make you anything, man. You are who you are. *gestures to Summer* She is who she is.  Now you go to her. Brand new.
Ethan: Come here right now!
Summer: Oh my god, I'm so sorry Ethan! *they hug* I love you!
Ethan: I love you so much.
Jerry: Um...
Joyce: You did it again, cubby. Come here.
Jerry: No! Stop! I hate this!
Joyce: Well, Christmas doesn't revolve around what you hate, son.
Jerry: Well then, I hate Christmas! Enjoy being human! You guys are gross and lame.
Animatronic Ruben: My name's Ruben Ridley. You're inside me right now, but by the end of this journey, I'll be inside all of you.
Animatronic Ruben: My story begins in the dot com crash in the early ‘90s.
Annie: *whispering to Morty* You can put your fingers wherever you want…
Rick: Morty, you wanna put it on mute or something?
Rick: I’m trying to concentrate.
Jerry: Ah, Rick?
Rick: *holds up a hand without even looking over at him* Not now, Jerry. I’ve got much, much smaller fish to fry.
Jerry: *enters anyway* I wanted to say I’m sorry I ever judged you. *leans on the ping pong table, looking down at Ruben’s corpse* Right now, you’re my sanest relative.
Rick: Relative… That’s it! Relative size! Jerry, hand me a scalpel and a bundle of dynamite! *into his headset* Morty! Can you get to the left nipple?
Morty: Are you kidding? I’m hoping I can get to both of them, Rick.
Rick: Morty, I’m talkin’ about Ruben's left nipple!
Morty: We need to get to the left nipple!
Dr. Bloom: The body is decaying!  The arterial transit system is useless! We can try the service shuttle. It's connected to the skeletal system. That's why we call it the Bone Train. *to Annie* Would you like to ride the Bone Train, miss?
Annie: If it'll get us out of here.
Dr. Bloom: How about you, Morty? Would you like to ride the Bone Train?
Morty: Why are you doing this bit? We’re gonna die. Let's go.
Jerry: Well, I can see that you're busy... Merry Christmas, Rick.
Dr. Bloom: There's no autopilot. One of us will have to stay here and operate it manually.
Morty: ...Uh, well...
Dr. Bloom: No, you're right. It was a dick move for me to even pause like that. This is all my fault. You go on.
Annie: *points* What the hell is that?
Dr. Bloom: E. coli outbreak. Hurry!
Dr. Bloom: Oh wait, there is an autopilot.  WAAAIT! ...OKAY, NEVER MIND, I WANTED TO SACRIFICE MYSELF ANYWAAAAAYYYY!
Annie: They're chewing through the doors!
Morty: Euuuugh! *grabs a fire extinguisher and beats the E. coli off the train with it* We’re in the areola, Rick! Almost to the nipple! But we’re also in a really bad situation!
Rick: I'm almost there, Morty!
Reporter: Reports are coming in from across the country about what appears to be a giant naked man over the continental United States. We now go to Tom Randolph in New York. Tom?
Tom: Well, his eyes aren't twinkling, and his dimples aren't merry, but I'm standing under a nose like a seventy-mile cherry!
Reporter: Thank you, Tom. Let's go now to Eric McMan in Los Angeles.
Eric: We’ve got feet here on the West Coast, Bill! Giant feet, even relative to the giant man's size! And you know what they say about that!
Reporter: Well, if the old adage is true, one can only wonder what is going down in the Rocky Mountains.
Morty: Oh my god, the track!
Annie: It's Hepatitis A!
Annie: The nipple hole...
Morty: It's beautiful...
Annie: Aw no!
Annie: Whoa! It's Hepatitis C!
Morty: Um... We... Did we have some sort of relationship with him?
Annie: I... think they're just like that? I think they're just good guys.
Morty: Oh. Huh.
Rick: Where's Dr. Bloom?
Morty: Sorry Rick... He's dead...
Rick: Goddamn it, Morty, I ask you to do one thing!
Beth: Jerry doesn't know what he's missing.
Jacob: He'll come around, Beth. Christmas is a special time. It has funny ways of bringing families together.
Beth: I dunno, Jacob. Jerry got an invitation to be alive today, and he rejected it. I don't know if our marriage will—
Summer: It's raining blood!
Jacob: Oh, shit. find Jerry!
Beth: Oh god.
Beth: Jerry!
Jerry: *stands and hugs her* It's alright! The TV says there's nothing to worry about.
Reporter : The giant naked sky Santa has exploded. Blood and chunks of viscera are raining down on the country. Everything should be fine.
Summer: Dad, can I have my phone back?
Jerry: Sure, sweetie. *pulls out the stocking and gives Summer her phone, then gives Beth her tablet* Everybody, take a device. It'll help you relax.
Jacob: This is nice.
Jerry: Yeah. *puts an arm around Beth and Jacob* I guess we really learned something this Christmas, Jacob.
Summer: No we didn't, Dad. No we didn't.
Rick: Too bad about Dr. Bloom. *Rick, Annie, and Morty exit the car* He was a genius. The only man capable of creating a new Anatomy Park.
Annie: Actually, I studied Dr. Bloom's work. I believe I have the knowledge necessary to create a new, much safer park!
Rick: What about Pirates of the Pancreas...?
Annie: I think it was one of the most underrated attractions.
Rick: Booyah! Hold your breath!
Morty: Hey, wh-wh- What the hell, Rick? What the hell, man? I liked her! I really had somethin’ going there, Rick!
Rick: Yeah, so I heard. You dodged a bullet, Morty, trust me. *whispers* Puffy vagina.
Morty: W-What's wrong with that? That doesn't sound like a problem to me! I dunno!
Rick: C’mon. Let's get some stuffing, I'm starving.
Rick: Oh, unbelievable. We got a bunch of robot computer people sittin’ around with their faces stuffed in computer screens.  Do you realize Christ was born today? Jesus Christ our Savior was born today! A-A-A-Are you people even human? What kind of Christmas is this?
Annie : Hey Rick! Rick, can you hear me?
Rick: Loud and clear, Annie.
Annie: Great! We’re also on with Alejandro, our Chief Imaginarian—
Alejandro: Hey Rick.
Annie: Natalie Jacobs and Chris Desiter from Microscopic Marketing, Zach from Organ Concepts and Jamie from New Media.
Rick: Hey everybody.
All: Hey, hi Rick, how's it goin’.
Annie: So. Pirates of the Pancreas.
Rick: Yeah, talk to me.
Alejandro: Hey Rick, it's Alejandro speaking. Um, so we asked ourselves internally, we asked ourselves over here, “Okay, what does a pancreas do?”  And the answer was, does it make pirates? No. It makes insulin, you know? So we’re starting with a new—
Ethan: So those guys are inside me, huh? Like, building a park?
Rick: Those guys are inside you building a piece of shit, Ethan! They're inside you building a monument to compromise! Fuck 'em. Fuck those people. Fuck this whole thing, Ethan.
Ethan: ... Cool. And who pays me?
Beth: So dad, guess what tomorrow is...
Rick: Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday.
Beth: No... well, it might be...
Rick: It is.
Beth: Fine, but also, tomorrow is your one year anniversary back in our lives. I'm gonna make you flying saucer-shaped pancakes.
Rick: Oh, there's no need to do that, Beth. Regular pancakes are fine.
Beth: Happy anniversary, dad!
Rick: Oh, I get it. Regular pancakes are already shaped like flying saucers.  Mmm, I should be making you breakfast for putting up with me.
Jerry: Should be making us a whole restaurant.
Beth: Nonsense, we couldn’t be happier to have you around. I just wish I got to see more of you.
Rick: Rick Sanchez of Earth dimension C-137. You are under arrest for crimes against alternate Ricks by the authority of the transdimensional council of Ricks.
Jerry: Hey! What the heck?
Rick: Neutralise the Jerry.
Jerry: Wait, no!
Summer: Dad!
Beth: Dad!
Morty: Rick!
Rick: Everybody relax. If I know these a-holes, and I am these a-holes, they just wanna haul me to their stupid clubhouse and waste my time with a bunch of questions. Let’s get it over with.
Rick: Bring his mo--orty.
Morty: Oh, man.
Rick: Leave my  Morty out of this!
Rick: You lost the right to have a say in these things when you refused to join  the council.
Beth: Wait, wh-wh-wh-what about Jerry?
Rick: Will you at least unfreeze my daughter’s idiot?
Jerry: -give you anything! I have a rare antique coin collection, just don’t hurt me!  Okay, maybe not antique, but it was a limited minting. They have little R2D2s instead of George Washingtons.
Beth: Our son’s been abducted!
Jerry: You hate me for buying those coins!
Morty : Geez, Rick! Wh-what is this place?
Rick: The citadel of Ricks. It’s the secret headquarters for the council of Ricks.
Morty : Council of Ricks?
Rick: As you know, Morty, I’ve got a lotta enemies in the universe that consider my genius a threat. Galactic terrorists, a few sub-galactic dictators, most of the entire intergalactic government: wh-wherever you find people with heads up their asses someone wants a piece of your grandpa. And a lot of versions of me on different timelines had the same problem. So a few thousand versions of me had the INGENIOUS IDEA OF BANDING TOGETHER like a herd of cattle or a school of fish or those people who answer questions on yahoo answers.
Morty : Hey, what do you know? It’s a cowboy version of me!
Rick: Geez, you’re easy to impress. Yeah, most timelines have a Rick and most Ricks have a Morty. This place is a real who’s-who of who’s you and me.
Rick Salesman 1: Turn your boring old Morty into a hot fashion statement, with some Morty dazzlers!
Rick Salesman 2: Hey, check this out!
Morty Doll: Show me the Morty!
Rick: Dumb.
Rick Salseman 3: ‘Scuse me, sir, is your Morty insured? You know, every year hundreds of Mortys are injured in-
Rick: Back off! Not my cup of tea, this place.
Rick: I say the point of being a Rick is being a-Rick.
Rick: Save your anti-Rick speech for the council of Ricks, terror-Rick!
Rick: Hey, save your Rick rules for the  sheep-Ricks, Rick-pig!
Rick: Fuck me, pal.
Rick: Fuck you? No no no no no, fuck me!
Rick Council 1: Bring up the holograms!
Rick Council 1: Twenty-seven Ricks brutally murdered in their own timelines. An unprecedented Rick-icidal epidemic. What say you, Earth Rick C-137?
Rick: You think I did this? Why am I the first Rick you pull in every time a Rick stubs his toe?
Rick Council 1: You  have a history of non-cooperation with the council.
Rick: Yeah, so does the scientist formerly known as Rick! Wh-wh-wh-why isn’t he here in handcuffs?
Rick Council 1: Because he’s dead too!
Rick crowd: No!
Rick Council 1: Who else would you have us question? You fit the profile. Of all the Ricks in the central finite curve, you’re the malcontent. The rogue.
Rick: I’m the Rick. And so were the rest of you before you formed this stupid alliance. You wanted to be safe from the government so you became a stupid government. That makes every Rick here less Rick than me.
Rick crowd:
Rick: Yeah, murmur it up, d-bags. Now if you’ll excuse me, I’ve got pancakes back home with syrup on top of them. They’re about to hit that critical point of syrup absorption that turns the cakes into a gross paste. And I hate to get all Andy Rooney about it, but I think we all like fluffy discs of cake with syrup on top! And I think we also like to be accused of crimes when there’s evidence! So as they say in Canada, peace oot!
Rick Council 1: Evidence? Good idea. Scan his portal gun!
Rick: Oh, come on. Don’t look at another man’s portal gun history. We-we all go to weird places.
Rick Council 1: Yes, but it appears you alone have been going to the exact timelines and locations in which the murders occured!
Rick: What? That’s Rick-diculous. I’m obviously being set up!
Rick Council 1: Earth Rick C-137! The council of Ricks sentences you to the machine of unspeakable doom, which swaps your conscious and unconscious minds, rendering your fantasies pointless while everything you know becomes impossible to grasp. Also every ten seconds it stabs your balls.
Rick: I’ve heard enough.
Rick: Run, Morty!
Crowd rick: Uh uh, not you!
are running, and are being chased by Ricks]
Morty : Aaaaah!
Armed Rick: Nooo!
Armed Rick: Arrrrgh! Ahhhh!
Armed Rick: Aaaah!
Armed Ricks 4 and 5: Oof!
Morty : Oh! Oooh!
Pizza 1: Yeah, I’d like to order one large person with extra people please.
Pizza 2: White people. No no no no no, black people. And hispanic on half.
Phone 1: Yes, I’d like to order one large sofa chair with extra chair please.
Phone 2: High chair. No no no no no, recliner! And wheelchair on half.
Armed Rick 6: They could have gone into any one of these.
Armed Ricks:
Sofa 1: Yeah, I’d like to order one large phone with extra phones please.
Sofa 2: Cellphone. No no no no no, rotary! And payphone on half.
Rick: That’ll keep ‘em  busy for a while.
Morty: Those guys were wrong, right? You don’t- you wouldn’t kill yourself… y-yourselves?
Rick: ‘Course not, Morty! How could that profit me? Someone out there is killing Ricks, and the council ain’t gonna stop thinking it’s me until we clear our names.
Rick: By finding the real Rick killer.
Morty: I’m scared, Rick! Maybe we should go home and stockpile weapons like that show Doomsday Preppers.
Rick: Not really my style, Morty. Besides, your home is most likely swarming with Ricks right now.
Rick: Alright, listen, Jerry. If Rick calls, this device is going to trace his location. You just gotta keep ‘em on the phone for thirty seconds or longer.
Beth: Who wants lemonade?
Rick: Oh yeah! Mmm! Oh, delicious!
Rick: Beth,  you’re a treasure.
Rick: I have a Beth just like you in my  reality, except you know what? She’s not as brilliant or  attractive!
Beth: Aww, thank  you!
All Ricks: Ohohoho! She did it! She did it!
Jerry: Uh, hello?
Rick: Hey Jerry, it’s Rick.
Jerry: Rick! Heyy. Haha, what’s- what’s up?
Rick: So listen, the heat’s on and  there’s nowhere left to turn so Morty and I are just going to fly my spaceship into a black hole.
Jerry: What?
Rick: Is that cool with you, dog?
Jerry: Rick, no! Mortyyyy!
Rick: I got it! The call’s coming from… inside the house!
All Ricks:
Rick: The Ricks are probably gonna waste some time messing with Jerry. They won’t be able to help themselves. But as soon as they get bored they’ll be on to us.
Chair waiter: Phones á la clams, and phonesgetti with phoneballs. Anything else?
Rick: Yeah, more phonesticks please.
Phone waiter: Right away, sir.
Morty: You know Rick, when I first saw all those Ricks and Mortys, I thought ‘gee, that kinda devalues our bond.’ But then I realised that just means that our relationship must be pretty special to span over all those different timelines.
Rick: Yeah, it’s gotta be that way. You’re a camouflage.
Morty: Camouflage? Wh-wh-what are you talking about, Rick?
Rick: Ricks have a very distinct and traceable brainwave due to our genius. The best way to hide from an enemy’s radar is to stand near someone with complementary brainwaves that make ours invisible. See, wh-wh-when a Rick is with a Morty, the genius waves get cancelled out by the uh,  Morty waves.
Morty: Um… because… our personalities are so different?
Rick: Oh, shit dog! My portal gun was hacked remotely Morty, obviously by the real killer to frame me. But I was able to trace the signal. Come on, let’s go!
Rick: Uh-oh!
Rick: ‘Scuse me, we’ve tracked a pair of dangerous criminals to this exact location. They look exactly like us, so in order to avoid confusion I’m going to mark us each with a red X right now. That way if someone has a gun and we both tell you to shoot the other one because they’re the evil one, you’ll know who’s lying.
Rick: Hey, check it out!
Rick: Dammit!
Chair waiter: Hey, you didn’t pay your bill!
Rick: The red X! Red X!
Rick: Hey, it’s a good thing that space outlet had labcoats and your favourite kind of shirt in stock, huh Morty?
Morty: Yeah, Rick. I-I heard you the first time. You don’t have to keep saying it over and over and over.
Rick: Man, this place is wayyy off the grid. This guy does not wanna be found.
Morty: Well, if he’s a Rick, doesn’t he just have to stand by a Morty to hide? I mean, isn’t that what Mortys are? Human cloaking devices?
Rick: Morty, you’re making a bigger deal out of this than it is.
Morty: Oh my god, Rick, look! There’s a bunch of people strapped all over that building!
Rick: Not people, Morty. Mortys.
Morty : Oh my god… wh-why would somebody do this? It’s horrible!
Rick: Well, one Morty’s enough to hide from the bureaucrats. But you g- you get a whole matrix of Mortys and put ‘em in agonising pain. That creates a pattern that can hide even from other Ricks, motherfucker. I fiddled with a  concept like this once.
Rick: On paper, Morty, on paper! I wouldn’t do this, it’s barbaric overkill. I mean, you could accomplish the same result with like five Mortys and a jumper cable.  Which I also wouldn’t do! I’m just saying, it’s bad craftsmanship.
Beth: Coffee time!
All ricks:
Jerry: Ugh.
Doofus Rick: Hi Jerry!
Jerry: Leave me alone, I’m working!
Doofus Rick: Oh, you are? Wh-wh-what do you do?
Jerry: Ugh. I’m- I’m in between advertising jobs.
Doofus Rick: Advertising? Wow! So, people need help figuring out what to buy and then y-you help them?
Jerry: W-well, it’s a little more complicated than that…
Doofus Rick: Well, I mean, you do it, and you seem like a guy that really has it all together!
Jerry:  Dude, are you… wh- you’re being a dick, right?
Doofus Rick: Oh gosh, wh- I hope not! I-I-I-I wouldn’t want to offend you in any way!
Jerry: You’re really a Rick?
Doofus Rick: Ohoho! Y-of course I am! Just as much as my Morty’s a Morty!
Jerry: Hey, he looks a lot like Eric Stoltz from the movie ‘Mask.’ You know, the one with Cher in it?
Doofus Rick: That’s right, Jerry! He-he’s from a reality where everyone is Eric Stoltz mask people! He’s Eric Stoltz mask Morty! They assigned him to me because… I never had any kids of my own. But if I did, boy, I’d love ‘em  if they were as smart and as successful as you are, Jerry.
Rick: Hey, get a load of this! Jerry’s hanging out with doofus Rick.
Rick: Haha, this is perfect.
Doofus Rick: I’m not doofus Rick! I’m Rick J-19-Zeta-7!
Rick: Oh, is that the timeline where everybody eats poop? Jerry, you know this guy eats poop, right?
Doofus Rick: Hey! I don’t eat poop! Y-you guys are always so mean to me!
Rick 1 and 2:
Doofus Rick: I guess it’s only fair to tell you now, Jerry… I’m the worst Rick of them all.
Jerry: According to who? Other versions of you? If I’ve learned one thing, it’s that before you get anywhere in life, you gotta stop listening to yourself.
Doofus Rick: Wow, you really are wise, Jerry. I-I guess that’s why you work in advertising!
Jerry: The fact that you feel that way makes you the best Rick of them all.
Morty: You don’t care about me at all! I’m no different than that jacket you’ve got on! Y-y-or-or your stupid portal gun! I’m just a tool! I-I’m just an object!
Rick: Hey, it’s your choice to take it personally, Morty. Now for the love of god, be quiet! The point of this is to get the drop on the guy!
Morty: You know what Rick, I’ll tell you something! I’m more than a human shield!
Rick: Yeah, that’s right! You are! You’re a perfect impenetrable sheet of human armour, Morty! Because you’re as dumb as I am smart! Which is why when I say ‘shut up’ it’s really good advice.
Rick: Great, nice work, Morty.
Rick: Urrgh.
Rick: Ooh, look at you, C-137! You’re- aren’t you a tough customer?
Rick: The slow clap? Really? Kinda played out, dude.
Rick: Not in this dimension it isn’t. In fact, hah, I invented it and nobody else has ever even done it here before.
Rick: Well lah-dee-dah.
Rick: Hey, that’s mine!
Rick: I don’t like the look of that Rick, Morty. We gotta escape.
Morty: I’m not gonna help you, Rick. Y-you’re a monster.
Rick: Don’t be Rickdiculous, Morty.
Morty: W-will you stop saying that? It’s stupid.
Rick: Take his Morty away.
Evil Morty: Come with me.
Morty: Yeah, gladly. Geez man, Ricks huh?
Morty: Hey man, you seem to know how this place works. Is there any way we can… shut down that grid and rescue all those Mortys out there?
Evil Morty: It would be pointless. Mortys have no chance of defeating a Rick.
Evil Morty: In here.
Rick: Ahh, isn’t it beautiful?
Rick: Yeah, yeah, looks like payday at Neverland ranch in here. Zing!
Lobster alien: Hehehehehehehehehe.
Rick: That guy got it.
Rick: Ah-ah Rick, quiet. You’re missing my symphony.
Rick: Hey, I’ll take it over Mumford and Sons. Zip!
Lobster alien: Hehehehehehehehehe.
Rick: This guy is on it!
Rick: He’s not laughing at your dumb jokes, Rick. That’s just a random noise it makes every ten seconds.
Lobster alien: Hehehehehehehehehe.
Rick: Awww.
Rick: See, Rick, you’re not as clever as you think you are. I wanted you to find me. We’re not so  different, you and I.
Rick: Yeah, duh!
Rick: See this right here, Rick? I crunched the numbers, I created a spectrum of all the Ricks. I listed ‘em out from most evil to least evil. Here’s where I am. And look at right here’s where you are, Rick. This guy right here? Super weird.
Rick: I get it. So you want me to team up with you to take down the council of Ricks, right? Is that where you’re going with this? ‘Cause that’s where I’d be going.
Rick: Please. I think I’m doing pretty good on my own. I’m simply going to download the contents of your brain, and then kill you.
Doofus Rick: Okay, if we add a little more titanium nitrate, and just a tad of chlorified tartrate: ovenless brownies!
Jerry: It’s incredible what a gifted mind can accomplish when priorities are in order!
Doofus Rick: Well, come on, I can’t take all the credit, Jerry. It was your idea. C’mere Jerry!
Jerry: Hey, uh. C’mere, uh. I-I wanna show you something.
Jerry: Okay, look. Everybody makes fun of me for getting these, but… you’re a genius scientist, what do you think? There’s little R2D2s where the George Washingtons should be!
Doofus Rick: You know Jerry, I’m not gonna tell you that these will increase in value, or even hold their current value. The truth is… you bought ‘em ‘cause you like ‘em. They have value to you. That’s what matters.
Jerry:  How long are you staying?
Doofus Rick: Until we find your Rick.
Jerry:  I found mine. I found mine.
Morty : Help!
Religious Morty: There is no escape, my son. We will find our peace in the next world.
Morty : So what? Y-y-y-y-you’re just going to give up?
Religious Morty: We’re giving in to the power of the One True Morty. One day he will return!
All religious Mortys: Praise the One True Morty!
Morty : Alright Mortys, listen up! My name is Morty Smith, from Earth dimension C-137! I know you’re scared, because I’m scared, but that’s no reason to accept our fate. We’re Mortys! We’re not defined by our relationships to Rick! Our destiny is our own!
Morty 1: This sounds like something the One True Morty might say. I’m sick of being a human shield! I-I-I-I wanna be a gardener!
Morty 2: I wanna write really crazy, intense action novels!
Hammer Morty: I’m more than just a hammer!
Religious Morty: He is the one true Morty! The one true Morty!
All Mortys: Hooray!
Lobster alien: Hey, keep it down!
All Mortys: Raaaaugh!
Rick: You’ve lived quite a life, Rick. It’s a real shame you’re not gonna be around to see it through.
Rick: You’re crying? Over a Morty?
Rick: No, I’m just allergic to dipshits.
Rick: Ugh, pathetic. We both know that if there’s any truth in the universe, it’s that Ricks don’t care about Mortys.
Rick: Do your worst, you little bastards! Kill me! Do it! Do it!
Rick: Morty! Get me out of this! Come on!
Morty : You’re lucky I’m not a Rick.
Rick: Point taken, but this is  no time for arcs.
Rick: Yeah, hello?
Rick: Hey, what do me and O.J. not have in common?
Rick: Huh? Wh-who is this?
Rick: I found the real killer, biitch! Get over here!
Rick: Yo ding-dong! We’re done here. Time to go.
Doofus Rick: Well Jerry, I  guess this means goodbye.
Jerry: W-w-well, does it have to? Heh, you, you look just like Rick. We could maybe… you know… get rid of him? I’m not saying kill him, necessarily, I-I’m also not saying necessarily not kill him, but-
Doofus Rick: Jerry. W-we both know it wouldn’t work. It’s time to go back to our lives. I love you, Jerry. I love ya.
Morty : Wh-wh-what’s gonna happen to all these Mortys?
Council Rick: They’ll go back to their families, attend school regularly, play video games, date girls… poor little Rickless bastards.
Council Rick: Earth Rick C-137, the council apologises for its false accusation. And in the way of reparations for our terrible mistake, we would like to compensate you with this voucher for a free replacement Morty, in the event that  your current  Morty should-
Rick: Uh, guys? Not a good time. Come on, Morty, let’s hit it.
Morty: Is it time for arcs yet, Rick? I did a pretty great job back there for a human cloaking device. Saved your ass.
Rick: Alright, Morty, don’t break an arm jerking yourself off.
Morty: Man, I can’t believe you, Rick! That right there! Tha-that was a great opportunity to show a little humanity. You know? To connect with me a little?
Rick: Hey Morty, you want connection? Go be part of some stupid club like all those dumb Ricks. You know, maybe I don’t connect because I’m the Rickest Rick there is. And you know, it would  go without saying that the Rickest Rick… would have the Mortyest Morty.
Morty: It would go without saying, huh?
Rick: Yeah, it would. Did you hear me say it?
Morty: Nah…  The Mortyest Morty…
Rick: Just don’t get too big for your loafers, Buster Brown. A cocky Morty could lead to some big problems. Could be a real bad thing for everybody.
Morty: Oh yeah, how’s that?
Rick: I-I-I’ll explain when you’re older.
Rick: What a mess…
Rick: Pride cometh before the fall. I guess he got what he deserved.
Rick: What is that?
Rick: Hand me the laser defibrillator.
Doofus Rick: Hey guys! Uh, c-can I help?
Rick: No! Go clean the toilets! Maybe you’ll make friends with some turds!
Rick: You make us ashamed to be ourselves!
Rick: My god! I’ve seen this technology before! This Rick was being controlled remotely, puppeteered by somebody else. This is the receiver!
Rick: Yeah, but where’s the transmitter?
Rick: Wubbalubbadubdub! Oh. Hey Jerry. Wh-wh-what are you doing in my room, buddy?
Jerry: Nothing! I was just, um, checking the smoke detectors.
Rick: Alright. Okay, get out.
Rick: What’s that dipshit doing out there? Are you friends with him? You know he eats his own shit, right? Oh my god, this is rich! I’ve got like  ten Ricks to call right now!
Rick: Look, I'm not paying 70 smidgens for a broken defraculator,
Alien: That is multiphase quantum resonator,
Rick: Well, does it defraculate?
Alien: Fuck no.
Rick: Then -- then -- then it's a broken defraculator,
Alien: Like you would even know dick about fraculation! Your planet just got cellphones, and the coverage still sucks!
Rick: Yeah, yeah, and your species eat sulfur, So, let's say 60 smidgens, I tell you what -- I'll do you a favor, I'll throw in a fart,
Morty: Hey, uh, Rick, um, you think maybe I could get something from this place, like a souvenir, like, just to have ---like, something cool, you know?
Rick: Not here, Morty, We'll stop somewhere else, because, you know, there's always another pawn shop,
Morty: Oh, okay,
I just, um -- you know,
I thought that robot over there looked pretty cool, you know?
Rick: Oh, it looks cool, huh?
That's why you want it?
Morty: Yeah! You know, I mean, it's different from the stuff on earth, and, you know, you take me to all these crazy places across the galaxy, and, you know,
I don't really have anything to to remember all those trips by,
It'd be kind of cool, like a souvenir,
You know, like, what if you passed away or died or something?
I wouldn't even have anything to remember all the cool stuff we did, you know?
Rick: Okay, 60 for the resonator, and my grandson wants the sex robot.
Summer: So, we're just going to pretend this isn't happening?
I'm not saying that's a bad idea -- just asking,
Jerry:
Rick, why would you let Morty bring that thing into our house?!
Rick: I don't know,
What do you want from me?
He thi-- he thou-- he thou-- he th-- he thought it looked cool,
You know what I mean?
Morty: Whew!
Ahh, All right,
Back to -- back to -- b-back upstairs,
Jerry: Well, I'm intervening.
Beth: Intervening with puberty?
You'll turn him into
Ralph Fiennes in "Red Dragon,"
He's at that age,
Let's just be proud of him,
Summer: Jesus, Did I really set the bar that low?
Morty: Um, Rick, could you come with me, please -- q-quickly?
Beth: Okay, now if we hear squeaking, we intervene,
Rick:
Where's the sex robot, Morty?
Morty: That is Gwendolyn --
I-I mean, the robot!
She started beeping and then transformed and tried to fly away!
Rick: Strange -- that's usually the man's job,
You know what I'm talking about,
Morty?
Wubba-lubba-dub-dub!
Morty that's my catchphrase, remember?
Remember -- remember how I -- how I cemented that catchphrase?
All right, All right, seriously, though, let me grab this thing,
Come on, you,,,rascal,
- Beth: Okay, unacceptable!
- Oh,
Jerry: What is going on?
Rick: All right, Uh-oh,
Beth: "Uh-oh"? What is that?!
Rick: Hmm, I think Morty's robot was designed for more than long weekends,
Genetic compiler, incubation chamber,
Yep, This here's some kind of baby maker, and that there's half Morty, half  Who -- who knows wh-what?
It's my bad, guys,
I'll -- I'll take care of it,
Summer: Grandpa Rick, no, no!
Jerry: Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Beth: Dad, What do you think you're doing?!
Rick: Hey, listen -- you guys quarantined the house when Summer brought olives back from Mexico,
I mean, this thing could grow to the size of Delaware,
I mean, it might eat brains and exhale space aids,
We got to be careful,
Morty: I lost the chance to be careful, Rick,
I'm a father now!
You know, it's time for me to be responsible, Isn't that right,,,
Rick: Don't name it,
Morty: ,,,Morty Jr ,?
Rick: Oh, crap he named it.
Beth: Well, dad, it's a living thing, and it's half human,
Jerry:
And it was born on American soil, which entitles it to --
Beth: Jerry, majoring in civics was your mistake,
Don't punish us for it.
Rick: Fine, I'm gonna take this thing to my workshop and do a little bit of investigating,
Do not let that thing out of your sight,
It looks harmless now, but it could grow into something dangerous,
Jerry:
Like the Insane Clown Posse.
Rick: Yeah, Good one, Jerry,
2003 just called,
It wants its easy target back,
Morty: Ohh,
He's like a little me!
Y-you don't think he'll turn into a monster,,,do you?
Beth: They always do,
Jerry: Hey, uh, 1995 called!
They want their
"Certain year called wanting its 'blank' back"
Formula back!
Beth: Why, Jerry?
Why expend the effort?
Jerry: Life is effort, and I'll stop when I die!
- Rick: Out,
- Summer: Whatcha doin'?
Rick: Well, I can't solve the problem my way, thanks to your family's primitive biological hang-ups,
Gross, I might have just touched one of Morty's loads,
But maybe I can find suitable parents for Morty Jr, on this robot's home world, which is...
Gazorpazorp in the Andromeda system,
- Scoot, Summer,
- Summer: Don't you need a new companion now that Morty's in the family way?
Rick: I don't do adventures with chicks, Summer,
Summer: Oh, right -- because there's something about having a wiener that would make me better at walking through a hole?
Aaaaaaaaaaaaah!
Rick: Oh, crap,
Summer: Grandpa Rick! Ugh!
Help! Help! Aah! Aah!
Summer: Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!
- Grandpa Rick!
- Rick: Still think it's a good idea to go through holes without a wiener?
- Summer: I want to go home,
- Rick: Yeah, no duh,
Ugh!
Summer:
Rick: Great, now I have to take over a whole planet because of your stupid boobs.
Jerry: You're doing great Morty,
Morty:
Really? You think? I mean,
I'm not doing much of anything,
What do I do if it cries?
Beth: Then you put it down and let it cry itself out,
Jerry: Yeah, right,
We tried that technique on Summer, and she's gonna end up stripping,
Isn't she? Yes, she is,
She's gonna strip for attention because she was denied it.
Beth: Stop filling it with your own insecurity,
You're gonna turn it into Morty -- uh, mm -- more -- more -- more -- more of you,
Jerry: Well, we can't all be raised like reptiles by a mentally ill scientist,
Jerry: What the -- aah! Aah!
Beth: Listen to me,
I am not rewarding this behavior.
Morty: Knock it off, both of you!
G-give me him!
Give me my baby!
You're both nuts!
I'm gonna raise
Morty Jr, myself!
♪ Where's your hands? ♪
♪ There's your hands ♪
♪ And that's how we play handy hands ♪
Jerry: Oh, you are going to ruin that kid, Morty,
Beth: At least we can agree on that.
Rick: Thanks, dum-dum,
Rick:
I said, "Thanks, dum-dum,"
Go get more,
Summer, put your burka on!
Summer: That burka is a human-rights violation, and I spent a lot on this top,
Rick: Look, I'm trying to repair a p-portal gun with a bunch of sex-doll parts, and I have to do it one-handed to keep these belushis from carting you off,
The least you could do is be ashamed of your gender.
Summer: Ugh, What's the deal with this place?
Why is it such a sausage planet, and how did such backward idiots invent robots?
Rick: Obviously, at some point, the Gazorpians became so evolved that they replaced females with birthing machines,
The resultant lack of distraction and hen-pecking allowed them to focus entirely on war, so they bombed themselves back to the stone age, and now they just fight with each other over fake pussy with sticks and rocks all day long.
Summer: You think it's efficient to get rid of women?
Rick: You ever see a line for the men's room?
Are you hear-- do you li-- do you hear me, Summer?
Droppin' loads,
- All: Droppin' loads!
- Droppin' loads,
Rick: The plot thickens,
Uh, you might want to cover your eyes, Summer,
Summer: Yeah, like it was my dream to watch,
Yeah, baby!
Rick:
Summer, grab -- grab hold,
Yeah, baby!
Rick: Aaaah!
Summer: Grandpa Rick, where are we going?
Rick: Well, obviously, Summer, it appears the lower tier of this society is being manipulated through sex and advanced technology by a hidden ruling class,
Sound familiar?
Summer:
Ticketmaster,
Rick: Oh, there -- there we go, Summer,
Hey -- hey, brother,
Hey, bro,
Nice racket you got going on here,
Listen, I'm Rick Sanchez from Earth dimension C-137,
Don't mean you any harm,
Coming in peace,
It's all cool in the, uh --
"Good in the neighborhood" is what I was trying to come -- is what I meant,
Oh, I get it -- the old "behind-every-great-man
Amazon twist,"
Gazorpian: Silence!
Rick:
Gazorpian: Your slave is ill-mannered,
Summer: My slave?
Gazorpian: We assume you are from a more primitive world, where men are still permitted to be servants,
If he is a rogue male, tell us now
- and we will kill him,
- Summer: He's my slave,
He's my slave,
He's definitely my slave.
Rick:
Ugh! Ohh! Oh-ho-ho!
Oh, boy, What's the opposite of "Wubba-lubba-dub-dubs"?
Am I right, ladies and gentlemen?
Are you guys kidding me?
Morty: Oh, Morty Jr,! you're gonna be a special little guy, aren't you?
You -- oh, yeah,
You're my special little guy,
Ohh,
Ohh! Ha ha!
Morty Jr: Da,
- Morty: What was that,
Morty Jr,?
Were you gonna say, "Dada"?
- Say, "Dada,"
Morty Jr: Death!
Morty: "Dada,"
Morty Jr: Damnation!
Morty: Um,,,"Dada"?
Morty Jr: Destruction, Domination,
Jerry:
Nice.
Gazorpian PA System: The spider in sector "C" is still alive,
Plan your route accordingly and expect delays,
We're not telling you what to do,
We're just sharing how we feel,
And now weather -- is anyone else cold, or is it just me?
Mar-sha: I am Mar-sha, ruler of Gazorpazorp,
I am here if you need to talk,
Summer: What is this place?
Mar-sha: Paradise.
We built it during the great passive-aggression, when the females separated from the males due to their increasingly destructive behavior,
I am here if you need to talk.
Summer: I am here if you need to talk,
Mar-sha: From here, we dispense mechanical surrogates to maintain our population,
Fertilized surrogates are returned here to our nursery,
The females are placed into educational programs where they can discover a service to our paradise that fulfills them most,
Males....they get to play outside.
Summer: That was just a baby,
And within a day, he'll be an adult male Gazorpian
-- one of the most aggressively violent creatures in the universe,
Rick: Wait a minute, We're here because a male Gazorpian was born on our planet,
Summer: You speak when you're spoken to, ding-a-ling!
It's true, though -- one of your babies was born on earth,
Are you the ruler of this Earth?
Summer: How did you know?
The quality of your top,
- Summer: Do you love it?
- I love it,
- I'm here if you need to talk,
- I'm here if you need to talk,
Summer:
I'm here if you need to talk,
If the Gazorpian is male, your earth is in grave danger,
We will give you passage back home so it can be terminated,
But first, Mojitos,
Rick:
We don't have time for Mojitos,
-Summer: You are insulting them,
- Rick: I don't care, Summer!
This place is the worst!
I want to go home!
Summer: Well, it really doesn't matter what you want, because this is a sane place where women rule,
Rick: Yeah, You know what I have to say about that?
I cannot believe my ears!
Rick:
Whoo, boy!
Who let the frogs out, huh?
Summer: Grandpa!
- Grandpa?
- That sounds patriarchal!
- It means "Father of fathers,"
Then this one is not your slave, and your Earth is yet another planet dominated by men,
Rick: It's not dominated by us, okay?
On Earth, men and women are equals,
Summer: Equals?! We make 70% of your salary for the same job!
- Seize them!
- Rick: Whoa!
Rick: Was this really the time to make that point, Summer?
Morty Jr: This is for you, daddy,
Morty: Oh, man! Um, okay, listen to me, Morty Jr, i've got to tell you something very important, okay? killing is bad, bad!
Morty Jr: You're silly, daddy,
Morty: No, Morty Jr, I'm being serious, okay? you need to put your energy into something else, I mean, what about dancing? Would you like to learn how to dance?
Morty Jr: I'd like to dance, on the graves of my enemies
Morty: Ohh! No, Morty Jr,!
Morty Jr: Daddy, can I go outside?
Morty: No! Absolutely not!
Morty Jr: But that's where all the people and the animals are,
Morty: Yeah, but you can't go out there because the air is poisonous for you, you will die, you'll die instantly if you ever leave this house, you hear me?
Morty Jr: For real?
Morty: For real times a million, buddy, So, let's just stay inside, and, you know, let's try dancing, right?Look at me, Yay! Look, We're gonna dance, Come on, Join dance with me here, We love to dance.
Morty Jr: Why do we love to dance?
Morty: Because I said so!
- Beth: Nice,
- Jerry: Nice,
So, what are you in for?
Rick: Because I got --
I got a big, you know, penis between my legs,
What -- what -- what are you in for?
Gazorpian #2: The worst crime a female can commit,
Veronica Ann Bennett,
I find you guilty of having bad bangs,
You ever notice the ones with bad bangs always have three names?
You are hereby sentenced to the silent treatment!
Rick: Pfft!
This is gonna be cake,
No, Jackie!
Rick and Summer of Earth, for the crimes of treason against womankind and for creating the sound of which we do not speak because it does not exist, you are hereby sentenced to --
Rick: What, what, what -- a night on the couch?
- ,,,death,
- Rick: Ooh, gerp,
Summer: I hate you so much right now.
Gazorpian #2: This will be the first instance of capital punishment in our society in 500 years due to our awesomeness, so we are forced to improvise,
We placed a large boulder on that ledge,
Rick:
Holy shit! Y-y-you're gonna crush us with a boulder?!
Gazorpian #2: No! Stop interrupting!
The boulder falls onto a lever that will launch knives,
Rick: What? Just give me a gun,
I'll kill myself.
Gazorpian #2: Stop interrupting!
The knives will -- fine!
You were right the first time, okay? The boulder crushes you,
I just didn't want to admit you were right,
- Happy?
- No, just ignore them,
- Ignore them,
- Such an asshole,
Rick: Look, I'm sorry, Summer,
I feel bad that I let you drag us into this,
I wish I could have been a better grandpa to you, and, you know, for what it's worth, that is a really nice, cute top that you're wearing there,
Summer: Top, My top!
My top -- the same top you complimented earlier!
Look -- look at the tag,
Read it.
Gazorpian #2: It says, "Marc Jacobs,"
Marc? Jacob?
These are names of the penis,
Summer: Yes,
An Earth man made this top,
Maybe on your planet, separation of the genders is the right thing to do, but on Earth, a certain percentage of our males are born gay, which is why my clothes are better than all of yours,
A man made something fashionable?
It's true, and sometimes the truth hurts, but it must be accepted, like if I told you that you're using the wrong color foundation for your skin and it ends at your neck, making you look like a party clown.
Summer: Okay, ouch, Noted,
But the fact remains if you impose
Gazorpazorp's laws on earth, you're no better than the men whose farts shall remain unspoken,
And if you think my top is cute, you cannot execute,
Very well, Give the Earth people a spacecraft so they may head back to their weird planet, where women are kind of equal but not really,
Rick: Good job, Summer, and thanks, girls,
You know, you girls are really something, I'll tell you that,
You know when we first got there, I was like --
Give them a ship now,
Morty: Morty Jr! Smoking?! that is not okay!
Morty Jr: What are you gonna do? ground me? I can't go outside anyway!
Morty: So what?! you could do things inside! you could play guitar, you could masturbate.
Morty Jr: I don't wanna masturbate, i want to conquer the planet!
Morty: Oh, here we go again! you know, who do you think is gonna love you if you conquer the planet, Morty Jr,?!
Morty Jr: Love, that's all you care about! what about weapons?! what about domination of the enemy?!
Morty: All right, that's it -- no more History Channel! this TV is for cartoons and video games only!
Morty Jr: I hate video games!
Morty: You take that back! give it to me!  Ugh! I-I-I didn't mean -- I didn't mean that, I didn't mean to do that, I'm sorry,
Morty Jr: I can't take this anymore! i'd rather breathe poison than live another minute with you!
Morty: No! No, no, no! Stop!
Morty Jr:' My life has been a lie, God is dead, The government's lame, Thanksgiving is about killing Indians, Jesus wasn't born on Christmas, They moved the date, it was a pagan holiday!
- Morty: Oh, dad!
- Jerry: Yes, Morty?
Morty: My son is gonna take over the planet, and I am too young to drive!
Can you help me get him back?!
Jerry:
I suppose, Morty,
I suppose,
But first, a deep sip from a very tall glass of
"I told you so ,"
Morty: Oh, my god!
Please, dad! Come on!
♪ Runnin' wild, runnin' hot, burnin' inside ♪
♪ With the youth in the blood and the age ♪
♪ And the heat and the fire in your pants, open wide ♪
♪ You're gonna run from the damn cold ♪
♪ But you can't run from your youth ♪
Morty: Dad, there he is!
Jerry: Oh, god,
Hey, stop that!
Morty: Oh, my god!
Oh, my god! Dad!
Morty Jr:
Morty: Morty Jr,, no!
It's me! It's dad,
It's okay!
Put the car down, Morty Jr,
No! No!
♪ Wh-where's your hands? ♪
♪ Where's your hands? ♪
Jerry: My car!
Morty Jr: ♪ And that's how we play handy hands! ♪
Rick: Out of the -- out of the way, Morty!
- Morty: No!
- Rick: Morty, that's one of the most violently aggressive creatures in the universe!
Morty: He's my son!
And if you hurt him, you'll have to kill me, Rick!
Morty Jr:
Dad, I'm so confused!
Morty: I know, Morty Jr,
I'm sorry.
I ended up lying to you and yelling at you just like my parents did to me,
You know, parents are just kids having kids,
One minute, you like how a shiny robot looks,
The next minute, you're in a fist fight with your alien son,
Morty Jr: I'm an alien?
Morty: We all have bad impulses, bad thoughts,
We just have to learn to channel them into something constructive,
Morty Jr: But I want to murder everyone I see!
Morty: Well, you know,
I mean, maybe there's a job out there for people that feel that way,
Brad Anderson: Actually, there is,
Hi, I'm Brad Anderson, creator of the nationally syndicated comic strip
"Marmaduke,"
You should consider being a creative,
I'm haunted by uncontrollable thoughts of mutilations and sexual assaults on a near daily basis,
But, you know, I channel it all into my work.
- Morty: Oh, Wow,
- Morty: Huh,
I never got that impression from reading "Marmaduke,"
Brad Anderson: Well, did you get the impression
I was trying to make you laugh?
Jerry: Tell me that wasn't
Brad Anderson?
Morty: Aw, see?
You hear that, Morty Jr,? maybe you could try being a creative of some kind,
Morty Jr: Maybe!
I always have sort of wanted to see my face on the back of a novel,
I mean, what I really want to do is slit people's throats, but beyond that,,,
Morty: I know you can do it, son,
Morty Jr: I think it's time I get a place of my own.
I promise I'll call you every day, or if
I need money or a place to do laundry.
Morty Jr:
Morty: Aaaaaaah!
Jerry: So, I assume this novel your son writes is gonna pay for my rear axle?
Rick: Isn't it interesting,
Summer, that after all that stuff we just did, nothing really mattered and there was no point to it?
Kind of makes you wonder, huh -- about nothing?
Summer: Are you sure it doesn't make you re-evaluate your policy about taking girls on adventures?
Rick: No, I'd say, given what we've been through, that I was right the whole time and any epiphanies about gender politics were a projection of your feminine insecurity,
But, hey, why don't you have a pink spaceship?
Go ride around and have a jolly old time,
Maybe that'll shut you up.
Beth: Dad? Summer?
Where were you guys this whole time?
Summer: On Gazorpazorp,
Where were you?
Beth: I was reading a newspaper,
Rick: Oh, that's interesting,
Beth,
You know, it's funny,
I-I-I heard about a little bit of news myself,
Take a look,
T-take a listen,
Wubba-lubba-dub-dubs!
This this world still got a -- it's still got a chance!
Yeah! Ha ha!
See you -- see you guys next week!
See everybody next week,
Interviewer: Mortimer smith, Jr,,
New York Times bestselling author, your book is about innocence, the definition of it, and, inevitably, its impossibility,
Is it autobiographical?
Morty Jr: Certainly,
I mean, all writing is, in my opinion,
But, uh -- my, um,,,
My father kept me locked in the house until I was a teenager, and there was violence and, uh, threats of poison gas -- but also dancing,
Interviewer: But you persevered, and created this masterpiece from your suffering.
Smith Jr,'s mind-bending novel,
"My Horrible Father," in every store and on everyone's mind,
Pick it up,
We'll be right back,
Beth: It's a thankless job,
Morty,
You did the best you could.
Morty: I hope he's eating enough.
Morty: Ohhh. Okay, here we go. *Walks over to Jessica and her friends*  H-Hey, Jessica, ughh.
Jessica: What's up, Morty? *sneezes*
Morty: Ugghh-
Brad: *Butts in, in front of Jessica* What are you doing?
Morty: Ummm...
Brad: Wait, wait. Were you about to talk... to her?
Morty: Well, I mean, I was thinking about it.
Brad: Dude-  stay in your league! Look at how hot she is! You don't see me going to a bigger school in a wealthier district and hittin' on their prettiest girl!
Jessica:  Gee, thanks, Brad.
Brad: I throw balls far. You want good words, date a languager.
Jerry: Eh, Try not to worry about it, Morty. You're a good kid, and there's not a premium on that right now, but you'll be getting girls sometime after Brad's out of shape.
Morty:  You're missing the point, Dad. I don't want girls, I want Jessica!
Jerry: Ahhh, well,  I remember feeling that way about a young lady named your mom, and that's not an urban dis, your mom was my Jessica. I remember the first time I saw her, I thought...
Rick:  I should get her pregnant, then she'll have to marry me.
Jerry: I beg your pardon, Rick, INAPPROPRIATE.
Rick:  Sorry, please proceed with your story about banging my daughter in high school.  I'm not sure you want to take romantic advice from this guy, Morty, his marriage is hanging from a thread.
Jerry:  My marriage is fine, thank you.
Rick: Jerry, it's your house, whatever you say it is is how it is,  but I think a blind man could see that Beth is looking for the door. I barely have a reason to care and even I noticed.
Morty: Come on, Rick, don't talk about my parents like that.
Rick: Listen, Morty, I hate to break it to you, but what people call "love" is a chemical reaction that compels animals to breed. It hits hard, Morty, then it slowly fades, leaving you stranded in a failing marriage. I did it, your parents are gonna do it. Break the cycle, Morty. Rise above. Focus on science.
Morty:  Alright, well, I'm gonna go get dressed for the dance.
Jerry: Yeah, I'm just going to...check on your mom.
Rick:  Morty, hand me that screwdriver, huh? *Morty closes door* I'm almost finished making my ionic defibulizer, Morty. It's gonna be great.
Morty: Hey, listen, Rick. You know how you said that, you know... love is a chemical and all that stuff from earlier?  Well, I was thinkn', you know, www... could you make some sort of chemical thing happen inside of Jessica's mind, you know, so where she falls in love with me and all that sort of thing, you know, like maybe make some sort of love potion or something?
Rick: Morty, that's such a poor use of my time, it's beneath me. Hand me the screwdriver.
Morty:  YOU KNOW WHAT, NO RICK! I'M NOT GONNA HAND YOU THE SCREWDRIVER! Uh, I'm never gonna hand you anything ever again, Rick.  I'm always helping you with this and that and the other thing. Www...what about me, Rick? Www... why can't you just help me out once, once, for once?
Rick: *sighs* You're growing up fast, Morty. You're growing into a real big thorn straight up into my ass!  Listen, this is called oxytocin. I extracted it from a vole. You know what a VOLE is, Morty, you know what a vole is?
Rick: It's a, it's a rodent that mates for life, Morty. This is the chemical release in the mammal's brain,  ...that makes it fall in love. Alright Morty, I just gotta *burps* combine it with some of your DNA.
Morty: Oh well, okay...
Rick: A hair, Morty, I need one of your hairs! This isn't Game Of Thrones.
Morty: Oww!
Rick:  Alright, Morty, whoever you smear this stuff on will fall in love with you, and only you, forever. Ya happy now, Morty?
Morty: Heck yeah! Thank you, Grandpa Rick!  Hey there's no dangers or anything or side effects, right?
Rick: Www.. what am I, a hack?! Go nuts, Morty, it's full proof.
Rick: Ugh, unless she has the flu.
*suspense music*
Jerry: Beth, do you still love me?
Beth: *sighs* Want kinda question is that?
Jerry: The "yes" or "no" kind. *weak laugh of obviousness*
Beth: Jerry, do you want homeless people to have homes?
Jerry: Yess.
Beth: Are you gonna build them?
Jerry: Noo.
Beth: Then what good was the "yes"?
Jerry:  Wait, iii... is loving me the house or the homeless people?
Beth:  Loving you is work, Jerry, hard work, like building a homeless shelter. Nobody want to say "no" to doing it, but some people put the work in. So what do ya say? Do you see me working here? Does this conversation seem tedious to me?
Jerry: Sort of.
Beth: But I obviously sort of love you, don't I? *alert on Beth's phone* So stop asking and maybe I'll love you more.  Crap, They need me at the horse hospital.
Jerry: This late?
Beth:  The racetrack had a starlit derby, there's a seven horse collision, and Davin's there alone.
Jerry:  *Davin, Davin, Davin, Davin, Davin, Davin, Davin, Davin*
Band Vocalist / MC Haps:  Flu. Yo, you gotta be aware. Aware about the flu, up in the air. Imma get me a shot and make the flu go away. Flu hatin' rappers just rappin' away. Yo. Yo. Flu hatin' rapper. It's a flu hatin' rap....This is about flu awareness. Gotta be aware of the flu in the airness. Yo, I'm a flu hatin' rapper. My name is MC Haaaaaaaaaaps- Haps Yeah, I'm MC Haps, I'm a flu hatin' rapper, yo......
Morty: Hey there, Jessica.  Whooa-whoopsie!
Jessica: Omigod, Morty. You look REALLY nice tonight.
Morty: WOW, thanks!
Jessica: I love you, Morty. I love you so much it burns!
Morty: Oh man. I love you too, Jessica!
Brad:  *spits* Is this punk bothering you, Jessica?
Jessica:  LEAVE HIM ALONE, JERK!  I'M IN LOVE WITH HIM! HE'S MORE MAN THEN YOU WILL EVER BE! *sneezes*
Brad:  Aw man, Morty, ugh, I'm really sorry.
Morty: Oh, well, no problem Brad.
Brad:  There's somethin' special bout you, somethin' special.
Morty:  Whoa, take it easy!
Jessica:  GET YOUR HANDS OFF OF HIM!
Brad:  BACK OFF I'M TRYING TO BE WITH MY MAN!
Principal Vagina:  That's enough Bradley. We don't want you injuring your ball-throwing arm.
Brad:  Oh, Principal Vagina.
Jessica:  Never leave me, Morty, NEVER.
Morty:  Uh, sure. I mean, of course not. What do you think that was all about?
Jessica:  Who cares? Just hold me.
Brad:  LET ME GO!!! I LOVE YOU MORTY! *sneeze, sneeze*
*suspenseful music*
Jerry:  She's gonna be alone with that guy all night.
Summer: Yeah, Dad, digging around the inside of horses. It's not a very romantic setting.
Rick: Well, Summer, there's always the possibility that she made the whole work thing up. Maybe davin's digging around in herinsides.
Summer: Grandpa, so gross! You're talking about my mom.
Rick: Well, she's my daughter, Summer. I outrank you. Or family means nothing, in which case don't play that card.
Jerry: She's not responding to my texts!
Summer: Careful, dad. Jealousy turns women off.
Jerry: Well, isn't that convenient?
Rick: Not for the men they cheat on, no.
Jerry: Okay, I'm... going to go out... for some ice cream. And maybe stop by the hospital... to support my wife... with my confidence.
Summer: God, grandpa, you're such a dick.
Rick: I'm sorry, Summer. Your opinion means very little to me. How come you're not at this stupid dance everyone loves so much?
Summer: Screw that. I don't want to get sick. It's flu season.
Rick: It is?
Summer: Yeah.
Rick: Uh-oh.
Morty: Please just let this work out.
Do it, Morty. Do it. Rip my clothes off and mate with me for life!
Morty: Um... can we maybe go somewhere more private?
Jessica, get a hold of yourself!
You don't deserve to carry Morty's genes.
♪ I love Morty ♪ ♪ and I hope Morty loves me ♪ ♪ I'd like to wrap my arms around him ♪ ♪ and feel him inside me ♪
Morty: Oh, crap.
Morty!
Rick: Morty, come on! We got to get you out of here. You're not gonna believe this because it usually never happens, but I made a mistake.
come on, Morty. We got to get out of here.
Come on.
Morty!
Morty:  are you okay?
Morty: I'm fine!
Oh, good.
If anything ever happened to you, I would kill myself.
I love you bad, mo-mo!
Morty, the principal and I have discussed it, a-a-and we're both insecure enough to agree to a three-way!
Rick: I didn't realize when I gave you that serum that Jessica had the flu you know, t-t-t-t-t-t-t-that might have been valuable information for me, Morty.
Morty: What the hell is going on, Rick?
Rick: What does it look like?
T-t-t-the serum is piggybacking on the virus.
It's gone airborne, Morty.
Morty: Oh, crap.
What are we gonna do, Rick?
Rick: It's gonna be fine, Morty, relax. I whipped up and antidote. It's based on praying-mantis dna. You know, praying mantises are the exact opposite of voles, Morty. I mean, they they mate once, and then they, you know, decapitate the partner. I mean, it's a whole ritual. It's really gruesome and totally opposite. There's no love at all. I-i-i basically mixed this with a more contagious flu virus. It should neutralize the whole thing, Morty. It'll all be over very shortly.
Rick: Uh, by the way, Morty, I know you didn't ask or anything, but I'm not interested in having s*x with you. These serums, they don't work on anybody related to you genetically.
Morty!
Rick: Okay, well, sometimes, science is more art than science, Morty. A lot of people don't get that.
Jerry:
Come on. Are you kidding me?
Hello!
Morty!
You're not Morty!
Bring us Morty!
Jerry: Nobody's killing me until after I catch my wife with another man.
I had s*x with billy.
But you were already pregnant!
Yeah, so what's the worst that could happen?
We interrupt "pregnant baby" with breaking news.
Summer:  Come on.
This just in Morty smith's whereabouts are still unknown.
Summer: What the hell?
The only thing that is known is... how cute he is.
I love him so much, I want to make love to him and then eat his head.
I love him more than you do, harold!
You wish, you stupid bitch!
Morty's mine!
Morty's mine!
Meant to be together!
Morty!
Where is Morty?
Summer:
Morty: Oh, my god, Rick. The whole world is infected!
Rick: Yeah, it's pretty wild how fast that spread. I've really outdone myself.
Morty: Outdone yourself?! W-w a-are are you kidding me, Rick? This is not okay! Not only do they all want to have s*x with me, but, you know, now they want to eat me afterwards!
Rick: Yeah, I don't know what I was thinking. Mantises are they opposite of voles? I mean, obviously, dna's a little more complicated than that. You know what, though, Morty? This right here's gonna do the tRick, baby. It's koala mixed with rattlesnake, chimpanzee, cactus, shark, golden retriever, and just a smidge of dinosaur. Should add up to normal humanity.
Morty: I don't that doesn't make any sense, Rick. How does that add up to normal humanity?
Rick: What, Morty, you want me to show you my math? I'm sorry a-are you the scientist or are you the kid that wanted to get laid?
Well, I'm glad we saved all those horses, but I'm almost sorry we're finished.
Beth: Yes, it's satisfying work.
Unh-unh-unh, it's, uh it's more than the work.
I love being in that sterilized room, sealed off from the world.
It's the only time I can really think... and feel.
Beth: Hmm, uh, what are you doing?
I'm playing african dream pop.
What do youdo after a long night?
Beth: Oh, ha, um, hey, I b I'd better get going.
Um, Jerry's been texting some pretty high-maintenance stuff.
Beth...
Beth: What is it, davin?
Just once, I'd like to know
...w-w-what it was like to give your son a bath.
Beth: What?!
What does Morty's skin smell like?
How soft...  How soft are his privates?
Beth: Let go of me, davin!
Take me to Morty.
Jerry:  You're not Morty.
Jerry: No. I'm mr. Crowbar, and this is my friend, who is also a crowbar.
Beth: That's... stupid.
Jerry:  Yeah? Well, look where being smart got you.
Beth: Jerry! Thank god!
Jerry: God? God's turning people into insect monsters, Beth. I'm the one beating them to death. Thank me.
Beth: Thank you, Jerry. Thank you.
Rick: Take a good look down there, Morty, and soak it in, because, you know, once I pull this lever, it's all back to normal.
Morty: Just do it already.
Rick: Well, technically, Morty, there's no rush. I mean, you know, o-once it's fixed, it's done. It's fixed. You know, we could we could just enjoy it for a little bit. I mean, l-l-l-look at how crazy it is. I mean, Morty, w-w-when's the next time you're gonna see something like this? I mean, soak it in, you know? It's it's pretty neat. It's pretty interesting.
Morty: That's it, Rick! I'm pulling the lever.
Rick: W-what do we have here, Morty? Looks like I was right and you were wrong, huh? I-i-i-i-i-i-i bet you feel pretty stupid right about now, huh?
I-i-i bet you feel like the world's smallest man that you were doubting me about this whole thing, Morty.
Morty: Oh, Rick, something's not right.
Rick:  Yeah, you. You're not right ever.
Morty: No, no! Look, you idiot!
Rick: Bet you're loving this, Morty. This must be the best day of your life. You get to be the mayor of I told you town.  You're welcome.
Jerry: Hold on.
Beth:
Jerry: I wish that shotgun was my pen1s.
Beth: If it were, you could call me ernest hemingway.
Jerry: I don't get it, and I don't need to.
Summer: Mom! Dad!
Both: Summer!
Beth:
Jerry: Where's Morty?
Summer: I don't know. Do you think grandpa Rick had something to do with this?
Jerry: It's not fair to assume that, Summer.
Beth: Oh, not fair? Give me a break. He is a selfish, irresponsible ass, and he left my mother. A real man stands by his woman.
Summer: Tchoo. Tchoo-tchoo-tchoo. Tchoo-tchoo.
Rick: Boy, Morty, I really cronenberged the world up, didn't i? We got a whole planet of cronenbergs walking around down there, Morty. A-at least they're not in love with you anymore, though. That's a huge step in the right direction.
Morty: Oh, my god! It's a living nightmare! How could you be so irresponsible, Rick?
Rick: Me irresponsible?! You all I wanted you to do was hand me a screwdriver, Morty! You're the one who wanted to be wanted me to buckle down and make you up a... roofie-juice serum so you could roofie that poor girl at your school. I mean, g w-w-w-w-w w are you kidding me, Morty? You're gonna try to take the high road on this one? Y-y-y-y-you're a little creep, Morty. Y-you're a you're you're you're just a little creepy... creep person.
Morty: All right, fine. I should have just listened to you when you refused to make the serum. I'm willing to accept my part of the blame for this, Rick. But I'll tell you something you know what? You got to accept your part of the blame! I'm not the one who fouled up the serum! I'm not the one who who who who haphazardly, you know, mixed a bunch of nonsense together and created a bunch of cronenbergs! You got to fix this, Rick!
Rick: All right, all right, Morty. You know, w-w-w-we are in a pretty deep hole, here, but I do have one emergency solution that I can use that'll kind of put everything back to normal, relatively speaking. Here, Morty, put this on while I do a little bit of scouting.
Morty: Wow, Rick, I got to say you really pulled a rabbit out of your hat this time. I mean, i-i really thought that the whole place was gonna be messed up for good, but here, you did it y-y-you you you figured out that crazy solution, like you always do.
Whoo!
That's some great luck.
Rick: Come on, Morty. Luck had nothing to do with it. I'm great. That's the real reason. Now, Morty, what do you say, buddy? Will you hand me a screwdriver so I can finish my ionic dis defibulizer?
Morty: Sure thing, Rick. Here's a screwdriver.
Rick: All right, Morty.
Thank you very much.
We got one screw turn... and two screw turns... and... all right, Morty, here we are.
Morty: Oh, my god, Rick! Is that us?! W-w-w-we're dead! What is going on, Rick? I'm freaking out!
Rick: Calm down, Morty!
Look at me! Calm down, Morty!
Morty: No, I can't deal with this!
Rick: Calm yourself, Morty.
Morty: I can't deal with this, Rick!
Rick: Calm down, Morty.
Morty: This can't be real!
Rick: You got to calm down, Morty.
Morty: W-w-w-w-we're ripped apart!
Rick: Shut up and listen to me! It's fine. Everything is fine. There's an infinite number of realities, Morty, and in a few dozen of those, I got lucky and turned everything back to normal. I just had to find one of those realities in which we also happen to both die around this time. Now we can just slip into the place of our dead selves in this reality and everything will be fine. We're not skipping a beat, Morty. Now, help me with these bodies.
Morty: This is insane.
Rick: Look, Morty, I'll grab myself, you grab yourself, okay? I mean, t-t-t-that seems fair to me I mean, that seems like a fair way to divvy it up.
Morty: Rick, what about the reality we left behind?
Rick: What about the reality where hitler cured cancer, Morty? The answer is don't think about it. It's not like we can do this every week, anyways. We get three or four more of these, tops. Now, pick up your dead self and come on. Haste makes waste. I-i-i don't suppose you've considered this detail, but obviously, if I hadn't screwed up as much as I did, we'd be these guys right now, so, again, you're welcome.
♪ look on down from the bridge ♪ ♪ there's still fountains down there ♪ ♪ look on down from the bridge ♪ ♪ it's still raining up here ♪ ♪ everybody seems so far away from me ♪ ♪ everybody just wants to be free ♪ ♪ look away from the sky ♪ ♪ it's no different when you're leaving home ♪ ♪ I can't be the same thing to you now ♪ ♪ I'm just gone ♪ ♪ just gone ♪ ♪ how could I say goodbye? ♪ ♪ how could I say goodbye? ♪
Summer: You know, the thing about a shark... he's got lifeless eyes... black eyes, like a doll's eyes. When he comes at ya, he doesn't seem to be living until he bites ya, and then the the blood, and the red, and the water...
Jerry:  You ever wonder what happened to Rick and Morty?
Beth: Sometimes. But, I'm ashamed to admit, now that they're gone, I'm finally happy.
Rick: Here we are, cronenberg Morty a reality where everyone in the world got genetically cronenberged. We'll fit right in, cronenberg Morty. It'll be like we never even left cronenberg world.
Morty: Yeah, cronenberg Rick, but, you know, I'm gonna miss cronenberg world, because everyone was cronenberged all along like us from the beginning, you know? I mean, i-i wish we hadn't genetically ruined cronenberg world beyond repair like we did, you know, and turned everyone into regular, normal people just walking around.
Rick: Don't you worry about that sort of thing, cronenberg Morty. Let's go make ourselves at home, huh?
Summer: Bye, mom! Bye, dad!
Morty: Drive carefully!
Rick: Have fun, you two.
Beth: Yes, we will have as much fun as possible on our...  Titanic-themed getaway.
Jerry:  Let's lose the 'tude, please. It's supposed to be romantic.
Beth: Speaking of disasters, dad, we are leaving you in charge, here.
Rick: I know, c-can we wrap this up? Morty and I  have some synthetic laser-eels oxidizing in the garage.
Beth:  Hey, don't blow me off. I am drawing a line, okay? Any damage to this house or these children when we get back, and... no more adventures with Morty.
Morty: Aw, geez, Rick! If my mom's the one who's saying it, then you know it's pretty serious this time.
Beth and Jerry in unison: That's right.
Jerry: Wait... What?
Rick: Listen, you have my word as a caregiver, everything's gonna be fine. And if not, like you say, no more adventures or whatever. It's like that old song "blomp blomp-a noop noop a-noop noop noop". You guys know that song?  From Tiny Roger's? You never heard of it? You know, the black effeminate guy from the '50s?
Rick: No-nobody?  A-all right, whatever. Look, who cares? Just go on your stupid trip.
Jerry:  Not one thing out of place.
Jerry: Not a single thing.
Summer:  Well, we're past the point of no return. I'm going to have a party.
Summer:  I found Jello.
Summer: Can you sneak your mom's vodka? Yes, she does. I saw it in your laundry room.  Listen, you can't both be in denial about it. Okay, bye.
Morty: Summer, you can't throw a party! Remember what mom said?
Summer: Yeah, if anything gets messed up, you and grandpa Rick get punished. I'm only a human being, Morty.
Morty: Rick, tell Summer she can't have a party!
Rick:  Uh, Summer, you can't have a party.
Summer: Ugh.
Rick:  Because  I'm having a party, b-I-I-I-itch!
Morty: Oh, what?! Rick, you can't!
Summer: What do you mean you're having a party?  Are some glip glops from the third dimension going to come over and play cards or something?
Rick: "Glip glop?" You're lucky a Traflorkian doesn't hear you say that.
Summer: Is that like their n-word?
Rick: It's like the n-word and the c-word had a baby, and it was raised by all the bad words for Jews.
Morty: Listen, I think the three of us could just, you know, have a nice time, like just hanging out, and, you know, doing a little bonding and --
Summer:  screw that. This is my chance to gain some footing with the cool kids.
Rick: That's why you party? Boy, you really are 17.
Summer: Why do you party?
Rick: To get  wr-wriggedy wriggedy wrecked, son!
Summer: Just keep your sci-fi friends away from my awesome ones.
Rick: Yeah, and you keep your awesome friends away from my canapes.
Tour Guide: After dinner, Titanic 2 will attach to the rail system near our replica iceberg, and the hydraulics encased in these tubes will execute a controlled sink into the icy depths.
Jerry: A rail system seems archaic for an attraction this impressive. Are you sure the ship will sink?
Tour Guide: I can assure you the ship will sink, as it has a thousand times before. It is un-unsinkable.
Jerry:  Ooh! Look, it's the line for the bow!
Beth:  Jerry, I'd love to just kick back with a Margarita and read.
Beth: Do you mind if I skip the whole "king of the world" bit?
Jerry: Well, it's not the "king of the world" bit. That's Jack and fabrizio.  This is where rose says, "I'm flying, Jack!" But whatever. I can be the only one to do it alone.
Beth:  Well, what about her?
Beth: Excuse me, ma'am. Would you like to take my place in line?
Lucy:  I, uh -- I could get into trouble.
Beth:  We won't tell.
Jerry: So... You're a Titanic fanatic?
Lucy: Oh, yes. I've worked here since it opened, but I've never been able to participate.
Jerry: Happy to help... rose.
Tammy:  I love watching bukkake. I mean, like, I don't know if I personally would ever do it...
Summer: Brad! Hey!
Brad: Yo.
Tammy:  Brad is here! Quick, make my hair look drunk.
Brad: Check it out. Tammy's already drunk. Cool.
Birdperson: The beacon was activated. Who is in danger?
Summer: Ugh! Grandpa!
Rick: Birdperson!
Birdperson: I am pleased there is no emergency.
Rick: Oh, there's an emergency, all right.  A pussy emergency! When's the last time you got laid, 'pers?
Birdperson: It has been a... challenging mating season for birdperson.
Rick: Then it's time to get your beak wet tonight, playah.  Go have some fun out there birdp-- bird-- birdperson.
Morty: Oh, man, how many people did you invite, Rick?
Rick: Uh... people? Mm, six.
Rick: Yo! What up, my glip glops?!
Morty: Oh, man!
Morty:    Oh! Y-y-you know there's a garbage, right?
Morty: Hey, uh, what the hell?!
Jelly-like creature with items stuck inside of it: Ooh. That's why you never invite a floopy doop and a shmoopy doop to the same party.
Morty: Oh, oh, g-- oh, that's disgusting! You guys are in my parents' bed!
Blue alien: Oh. Sorry. I'm not feeling too well. I just needed to lie down for a bit.
Morty: Oh. Okay. S-s-sorry. Haha.
Morty: Oh, my God! Are you kidding me?!
Gearhead: The thing people don't realize about the Gear Wars is that it was never really about the gears at all.
Rick: Uh-huh. Yeah. No, no, to-totally.
Morty: Rick, you got to stop --
Rick: Morty! Have you met Gearhead?
Morty:  Hey, how's it --
Rick:  Morty here, he -- he would love to hear all about the Gear Wars.
Gearhead: How familiar are you with the Gear Wars, exactly?
Morty: Uh... Not at all.
Gearhead: Oh, boy. I envy you. Okay, it was about 754 years ago...
Rick: Oh, hey, Morty! H-have you -- have you met my buddy scropon?
Morty: Not again, Rick. That last guy droned on for 20 minutes, you know? And meanwhile, the whole house is being destroyed!
Rick: Whoa, Morty, this guy's entire planet was destroyed.
Rick: Have a little perspective.
Squanchy: Hey, Rick, squanchy party, bro!
Rick: Aw! Squanchy!
Squanchy: Is there a good place for me to squanch around here?
Rick: Squanchy, you can squanch wherever you want, man. Mi casa es su casa, dawg!
Squanchy: All right! I like your squanch!
Morty: Uh, Rick, what exactly is "squanching"?
Rick: Morty, listen -- we've had a lot of really cool adventures over the last year, but it's time to relax.
Morty: Yeah, if I relax now, there might not even be any more adventures!
Rick: Jesus, Morty, you're bumming me out. Can't we just pretend like everything's fine for a few hours, enjoy ourselves, and then worry about all this later?
Morty: Yeah, that's easy for you to say, Rick. You know, you like not caring about stuff. You know, wh-wh-what's in this for me?
Morty:  Jessica.
Rick: Knock it off, Slow Mobius!
Slow Mobius: Ha ha! Sorry, dude! I'm just trying to show off my powers, bro!
Morty: I can't believe she's here.
Rick: Well, what are you doing standing here, Morty? Go. Talk to her.
Rick: Tonight, the only adventure you're on is your cusping manhood.
Jerry: Oh, Rose.
Lucy: Whee!
Jerry: Is that what I think it is?
Lucy:  Yes, every couple gets to re-create Jack's drowning at the end of the movie.
Lucy: It's so romantic.
Jerry: I can't wait to do that with Beth.
Lucy: I don't know, Jerry. With all due respect, it seems like your wife may not be that interested.
Jerry:  Look!
Voice through speaker: Iceberg, right ahead! The buffet is now closed.
Voice through speaker: Iceberg, right ahead! The buffet is now closed.
Captain #1:  Uh, sir? There's not a problem.
Captain #2: What do you mean there's not a problem?
Captain #1: The guidance system isn't putting us on a direct collision course. This ship is about to completely miss the giant iceberg!
Captain #2: Well, do something! Steer into it!
Captain #1:  I'm trying!
Captain #2: It's too late.  Ladies and gentlemen... Don't brace yourselves.
Jerry: No! What happened?!
Lucy: Their rail system must have failed.
Passengers: Oh, my God! We're not gonna sink! What are we gonna do?!
Guy: Totally gonna get laid tonight.
Tammy:  I like your feathers.
Birdperson: They are designed to attract the attention of the female.
Tammy: It's working.
Birdperson: Tammy, I should let you know I just got out of a highly intense soul bond with my previous spirit mate.
Tammy: I'm not looking to get into a soul bond. I'm just looking for...
Birdperson: I believe birdperson can arrange that.
Nancy: Hey, Summer, haven't seen you at flute practice in a while.
Girl: Summer, don't tell me you're friends with her.
Summer:  Are you kidding me? I don't even know what she's doing here.
Rick: Whoa. Not cool, summer. This is a party.  Everybody should be welcome.
Rick: Oh, great. Who invited Abradolph Lincoler?
Summer: I thought everyone was welcome.
Rick: It's not the same, Summer. Lincoler is a crazed maniac -- just a misguided effort of mine to create a morally neutral superleader by combining the DNA of Adolf Hitler and Abraham Lincoln. Turns out  it just adds up to a lame, weird loser.
Abradolph Lincoler: Rick, you brought me into this world, a suffering abomination tortured by the duality of its being.
Abradolph Lincoler:  But I shall finally know peace when I watch the life drain from your wretched body!
Brad: Whoa. What's up, man?
Abradolph Lincoler: I have no quarrel with you, boy.
Brad: "Boy"? What's that supposed to mean?
Abradolph Lincoler:  It's just -- l-look, I-I don't know how you thought I meant it, but...
Rick: Don't look at me, dude.
Abradolph Lincoler: Look, I'm half-Abraham Lincoln, so --
Brad:  So I should get on my knees and kiss your ass?!
Abradolph Lincoler: Well, no, but... You know?
Brad: What do I know? That the third reich will reign for a thousand years?
Jessica: Leave him alone, Brad.
Brad: Stay out of this, Jessica!
Rick: Kick his ass, Brad!
Everyone except Morty and Jessica:  Kick his ass! Kick his ass! Kick his ass!
Jessica: Brad!
Morty: Rick!
Rick:  I just did you a favor, Morty.
Morty: Sorry about all that. Rick has some really strange friends.
Jessica:  Ugh! Brad is such a jerk. He's always trying to prove what a man he is. I just want to find somebody nice and sweet.
Morty: Jessica, can I show you something?
(Screen cuts to Morty opening the door to Rick's garage, and switching on the light. Jessica is with morty. The garage is full of constructed devices and stuff.
Jessica: Wow! Look at all this stuff.
Morty:  Yeah. This is me and my grandpa Rick's Sci-Fi workshop. Check this out.
Jessica: It's beautiful.
Morty: You know, Jessica, there's something I've always wanted to tell you.
Jesica: What's that, Morty?
Morty: I think that you're the most --
Jessica: No, that -- those weird sounds coming from the closet over there.
(Morty turns off the device, and hands it to Jessica, as he goes to investigate the closet. He walks over to it, hesitant to open it. He glances at Jessica, before opening it. Inside is Squanchy, Autoerotic asphyxiating himself. (Choking himself with a rope while masturbating.
Jessica: Aah!
Morty: Oh, my God!
Squanchy: Hey, I'm squanching in here!
Morty: Oh, my God! Oh, that is so disgusting!
Morty: Ow! Oh! Oh, crap!
Rick: Huh. Big star in the sky.  Oxygen-rich atmosphere. Giant testicle monsters.  We'll be fine! Let's party!
Stereo: ♪ Just shake that ass, bitch, and let me see whatcha got ♪
Summer: I swear to God, Morty, if it weren't for the fact that everyone's still having a blast in there, I would be so furious with you right now.
Rick: Oh, man. Y-you hear that, Morty? You really lucked out with Summer o-on that one.
Morty: How are you guys not freaking out right now?! T-the whole house is sitting in another dimension! I-I mean, w-what the hell are we supposed to do?! M-m-mom and dad are gonna kill us! I'm losing it here, Rick!
Rick:  Relax, Morty, rela-a-a-ax!  It's gonna be fine. All we have to do is go out and find us some kalaxian crystals.  Oh, shit, motherfucker! Kalaxian crystals, Morty, just a few miles South of here.
Morty: Okay. Let's go, then.
Morty: W-w-we got to go get those crystals right now, Rick.
Rick:  Whoa, whoa, whoa. Morty, Morty, I-I can't go with you. I got to hang back and make sure everything stays cool here, you know? I mean, who knows what -- what if somebody breaks something?
Summer: Yeah. Me too. I should stay.
Abradolph Lincoler: You guys have any aspirin?
Rick: Oh, hey, Morty, this is perfect! You can take Lincoler with you.
Abradolph Lincoler: Hey, man, I'm not going anywhere. I'm injured.
Rick: Shut up, Lincoler.  It's the least you can do for wrecking the living room.
Summer:  Yeah! And, Nancy, you should go, too.
Nancy: What? Why -- why me?
Summer: Because, uh, you're -- you're so good at playing the flute.
Captain #2: Sorry for the inconvenience, folks. We should resume sinking shortly. In the meantime, please, stay on the ship and enjoy a complimentary plate of James Cameronion rings.
Jerry:  Great. Not only is the ship not sinking, but now the fourth wall has been broken.
Beth:  I am gonna go back to the room to finish my book. You should find that Lucy woman.
Jerry: But -- but --
Lucy: You see, Jerry?  May I show you something?
Lucy: Had everything gone as planned, this entire area would be underwater.
Jerry: I would have liked to see it. This trip has been a "Titanic" failure.  Get it?
Jerry:  Ooh!
Lucy: Draw me, Jerry.
Jerry:  Oh, boy. Lucy, wow. Uh, this isn't what I had in mind.
Lucy: But it's the perfect moment. We've been dreaming about this for 16 years.
Jerry: Um, not like this. Not -- not with you. Heh.
Lucy:  You are gonna draw me.
Jerry: Aah!
Lucy: Then you're going to fuck me in that car over there.
Abradolph Lincoler:  It's weird, 'cause I definitely think that all men are created equal. But, at the same time --
Morty:  Okay! Um, the crystals should be really close.
Nancy:  There they are!
Abradolph Lincoler: Wait. Something's not right.
Abradolph Lincoler: Get the crystals! I'll handle the beast! Prepare to be emancipated from your own inferior genes!
Nancy: Summer's gonna like me again.
Morty: Lincoler, come on! Let's get out of here!
Abradolph Lincoler: Mein journey is over, Morty.  I have something important to tell you.
Gearhead: ♪ And the gears, they turned for a thousand years ♪ ♪ until the dark day that they stopped ♪
Morty:  Rick, I got them! I got the crystals!
Rick: All right! You did it, Morty.
Morty: Rick, wait! There's something you need to know. I couldn't have done it without Lincoler. He said that he was really sorry and that he loves you like a father.
Morty: He only wanted you to accept him, and he hopes that his final act would redeem him in your eyes.  He sacrificed himself to save all of us, Rick. He died.
Rick: Well, at least he didn't die in vain. He got these crystals.  And these babies just saved this lame-ass party! Wubba, lubba, dub, dub! Play something. Somebody, play something.
Morty: Wait a minute. What?
Rick:  ♪ Put your right foot forward ♪ ♪ and your left foot back ♪ ♪ then fucking slide around ♪ ♪ like on a nordictrack ♪
Rick: ♪ move to the left ♪ ♪ step to the right ♪ ♪ wiggle your elbows, and look ♪ ♪ up into the light ♪
Song: ♪ it's the, it's the ♪ ♪ it's the Rick dance ♪ ♪ it's the, it's the ♪ ♪ it's the Rick dance ♪
Rick: Slow Mobius, hit me with the clock beam!
Song: ♪ It's the, it's the ♪ ♪ it's the Rick dance ♪
Rick: That's the Rick dance! All right!  Whoa, man!
Morty: What the hell was that?! I thought those crystals were supposed to help us get home or something!
Rick: What? No, no, no. I can get us home whenever I want to. But, listen, speaking of those crystals, can I get the rest of them? I'm starting to come down, Morty.  Crystal kalaxian is a really strong, but fleeting high.
Morty: That's what I think of your crystals, Rick!
Rick: Oh, Morty, you idiot! Does anybody else have any more k-lax? B-birdperson?
Rick: Uh, squanchy?
Squanchy: Don't squaunch at me.
Morty: All right, everybody, party is officially over! Rick, take us home now.
Rick: All right, all right, fine, Morty, you party pooper buzzkill! Boo, boo! Morty sucks!
Tammy: Boo! You suck, whatever your name is.
Everyone: Boo!
Rick: Morty, you're the worst, Morty.
Gearhead: But these gears just started turnin'.
Lucy: Almost finished, Jerry?
Jerry: Uh, almost. I haven't quite captured your beautiful eyes.
Lucy:  I'm sure it's good enough. Move!
Lucy: Every weekend, Jacks and Roses have their Titanic experience in this car, and I have to mop it up. The floor drops out to make it easier.  But now it's my turn. We're going to get it nice and steamy in there, and I'm going to slam my hand on the steam and leave a nice handprint, and then you're going to love inside of me.
Lucy: No mess. No clean.
Jerry:  Beth!
Beth: Bet you're glad I think kindles are dumb now.
Beth: I can't help but feel a little guilty. I didn't peg Lucy for a rapist.
Jerry: What does a rapist look like exactly, Beth? Is it a slavic man wearing a denim jacket with a patchy beard and the scent of cheap champagne wafting over his blister-pocked lips?
Beth: What?
Beth: Well, at least you got all this free stuff.
Beth: Should be enough to satisfy your Titanic Jones for a while.
Jerry:  Ugh! I'm not going to fit.  Beth, listen to me. You're going to get out of here. You're gonna go on, and --
Beth:  Jerry, just leave the door.
Jerry: It's not a door, Beth. It's debris.
Beth: I don't care. Just leave it.
Jerry: Yeah. Okay.
Lucy: Ahahahah! "Cape fear"! Hahahaha! "Cape fear"! I'm -- I'm doing -- I'm -- I'm going to do like from "cape fear".
Lucy: Ugh! Auh! Augh!
Squanchy: Hey, squanchers! The party's squanching on at my place!
Summer: Cool. I'm coming, too.
Squanchy:  Uh, no. You're not squanchy enough for a squanchy party.
Summer: What?
Squanchy: Nancy told us what a bitch you are.
Summer: Guys, seriously. Nancy?
Nancy: Summer, you're a bad person. All you care about is having popular people like you. That's not what Abradolph Lincoler stood for. Well, I-it was hard to pin down what he stood for, but it's certainly not what he died for.
Summer: Next time I party, I'm just gonna focus on getting totally wrecked.  You're so wise.
Rick:   Hmm, yeah. Mhh mhm...
Birdperson: May I assist you with that?
Morty: Uh, sure, yeah.  Thanks.
Birdperson: Morty, do you know what "wubba lubba dub dub" means?
Morty: Uh, that's just Rick's stupid nonsense catchphrase.
Birdperson:  It's not nonsense at all. In my people's tongue, it means, "I am in great pain. Please help me."
Morty: Well, I got news for you. He's saying it ironically.
Birdperson: No, Morty. Your grandfather is, indeed, in very deep pain. That is why he must numb himself.
Morty: Come on, um...
Birdperson: Birdperson.
Morty: Come on, birdperson. Rick's not that complicated. He's just a huge asshole.
Birdperson: Then why do you care so much if you are no longer allowed to continue on your adventures together? It appears fate has presented you with an opportunity to free yourself of Rick forever.
Morty: You know what? You're right. I shouldn't even care. This is probably the best thing that could have happened to me.
Morty: I'm sick of having adventures with Rick.
Birdperson: My people have another saying-- "gubba nub nub doo rah kah". It means, "whatever lets you sleep at night".
Summer: Guys, mom and dad are, like, right around the corner.
Birdperson: This is your moment, Morty. Choose wisely. Tammy!
Birdperson: Caw!
Summer: Wow. We are so screwed.
Morty:  Rick, wake up.
Rick: Huh? What? Wait? What? What? Stop.
Morty: Rick, you got to do something quick. My parents are home.
Rick: Augh. Uh, all -- all right.  All right. Hold -- hold on.  Ahh! So good.
Morty: Oh, my God. They're walking up the driveway.
Rick: Bring me the thing.
Morty: What -- what thing?
Rick:  The thing. The thing. The -- the -- it's got, like, buttons on it and lights on it. It -- it -- it beeps.
Morty: Rick! That describes everything in your garage!
Summer:  Do you mean this?
Rick: Summer  for for the win.
Rick: All right, that should do it.
Morty: Whoa! What did you do?
Rick: Uh, s-see for yourself.
Summer: Whoa!
Rick: Yeah, e-everything's frozen in time. Yeah, and slow mobius thinks he's all that.
Morty: For how long?
Rick: I don't know. How long do you guys want? A week? A month?
Summer: Can we start cleaning the house and see how we feel?
Rick: Worst movie ever.
Summer: Dumb.
Morty: Ooh, boy, what a waste of time.
Morty: Get it? You know, 'cause it's frozen.
Summer: This has been so much fun.
Morty: Hey, Rick. You know, this whole time, I haven't once heard you say that "wubba lubba dub dub" thing that you usually say.
Rick: Don't need to. I have a  new catchphrase.
Morty: Oh, yeah? What -- what's that, Rick?
Rick: love my grandkids.
Morty and Summer in unison:  Aww.
Rick: Psych! Just kidding -- my new catchphrase is, "I don't give a fuck".
Rick and the song: ♪ Just shake that ass, bitch, and let me see whatcha got ♪ ♪ just shake that ass, bitch, and let me see whatcha got ♪ Roll credits! ♪ Just shake that a-- Roll the credits! Go! ♪ Just shake that ass That's the end of season one!
Rick: That's the end, motherfucker! "I don't give a fuck" is my new catchphrase! Fuck you! That's season one! Boom! Season one up in your face, motherfucker! Yeah!
Abradolph Lincoler: Revenge.
Abradolph Lincoler: What?!
Shirtless guy: Party!
Shirtless guy: Whoo, baby!
Abradolph Lincoler: Please, stop!
Shirtless Guy: Hey, brah!
Abradolph Lincoler: I don't understand. Are you enjoying this? Do you like this?
Shirtless Guy: Yeah, you know it, dawg! Whoo, baby!
Jerry: Oh, my God! No, no..!
Summer: I told you!
Beth: Hold on.
Bachelor : Will you please... NOT marry me-- I choose Veronica.
Summer: What?
Jerry: Yes!
Beth: Called it.
Summer: Why would he choose Veronica?
Jerry: Because he loves her?
Rick: Well if it's any consolation, Summer, none of it mattered, and the entire show is stupid.
Jerry: Okay, I've got an idea, Rick: you show us your concept of "good TV", and we'll crap all over that.
Rick:  I thought you'd never ask.
Jerry: Hey!
Morty: Oh, cool! Is that crystallized Zanthonite? It conducts electrons across dimensions.
Rick:  20% accurate, as usual,  Morty.  The important thing being I just upgraded our cable package with programming from every conceivable reality.
Jerry: Wait, does that mean we get Showtime Extreme?
Rick: How about Showtime Extreme in a world where man evolved from corn?
Corn Man 1 : We're not so different. We're both corn of action.
Corn Man 2 : Yeah... But one of us is dead corn!
Summer: Bor-ing.
Rick: Summer,  you just spent  three months watching a man choose a fake wife.
Jerry: So, what, It'd be better if the people were corn?
Rick: Jerry, you don't get it. This is infinite TV, from infinite universes. Look.
Glenn : This shit is delicious.
Rick: A movie about a guy eating shit.  A violent Antiques Show...
Letterman : It's a pleasure to have you.
Jerry : The pleasure's all mine.
Rick: Letterman from a time line where Jerry's famous.
Jerry: Wait!
Beth: What in the hell?
Rick: I agree. Where's this going?
Jerry: No, the other thing! Go back!
Rick: Really? All right, fine.
Woman : Glenn, this is a court order. It says you can't eat shit anymore.
Rick: All right, Jerry, when you're right, you're right. Now I'm hooked.
Int. Smith Residence. The Smith Family and Rick are sitting in the living room watching TV.
Announcer : Coming up next on "Shmloo's the Shmloss", Shmlony has a nightmare.
Shmlony : Shmlantha, Schmlona!
Rick: Amazing. A dimension where all proper nouns begin with "Schmla".
Shmlony : Schmlove, Schmlandula, Schmlonathan--
Rick: All right, that got, that actually got old pretty quick.
Jerry:  Rick, would you please go back to me on David Letterman?
Rick: Infinity's a big number, Jerry. I don't remember the channel.
Beth: Go back, go back!
Rick: Jeez.
Jerry : You speak da tru-tru.
Summer: Oh my God! Dad's in "Cloud Atlas"!
Jerry: I'm in "Cloud Atlas"! What's "Cloud Atlas"?
Jerry : Sometimes small tru-tru different than da big tru-tru.
Beth: How is this possible?
Rick: Infinite timelines, infinite possibilities - including a time line where Jerry's a movie star. Look, you guys are getting excited about the wrong aspect of this device. Ju-- Wa-- Look at this.
Host in Trenchcoat : And now, another Quick Mystery.
Cop : I just want to know who could've done something like this. It's a travesty!
Killer 1 : I did. See this knife and all the blood on it? Here's my fingerprints.
Judge : Guilty! I sentence you to life in prison.
Host in Trenchcoat : Here's another Quick Mystery.
Man : My mother's dead!
Killer 2 : And I killed her. Here's the weapon. And cuff me, thank you very much.
Judge : Guilty! Sentenced to murder.
Host in Trenchcoat : Here's anothe--
Killer 3 : I'm the killer!
Host in Trenchcoat : Wow, that one was really quick, wasn't it?
Rick: Now who wants to watch random, crazy TV shows from different dimensions, a-a-and then who wants to narcissistically obsess about their alternate self?
Beth, Summer, and Jerry : Narcissism. The narcisstic stuff. I want to obsess about myself.
Rick:  Here.  These scan your retinas, and let you view parallel time lines through genetically matching versions of your eyes.  Go fetch!
Beth and Summer:  Yes! This is so cool! Ladies First!
Rick: I'm proud of you, Morty.
Morty: Hey man, I don't give a crap about myself, Rick. Let's watch some crazy stuff, yo!
Ants-In-My-Eyes Johnson : I'm Ants-In-My-Eyes Johnson, Here at Ants-in-My-Eyes Johnson's Electronics. I mean, there's so many ants in my eyes! And there's so many TVs, microwaves, radios I think, I can't-- I'm not 100% sure what we have here in stock, because I can't see anything. Our prices, I hope, aren't too low! Check out this refrigerator! Only $200! What about this microwave? Only $100! That's fair! I'm Ants-in-My-Eyes Johnson! Everything's black, I can't see a thing!  And also I can't feel anything either-- did I mention that? But that's not as catchy as having ants in your eyes. So that always goes, you know, off by the wayside. I can't feel. It's a very rare disease. All my-- All my nerves, they don't allow for the sensation of touch. So I never know what's going on. Am I standing? Sitting? I don't know.
Int. Smith Residence. Jerry, Beth, and Summer are in the kitchen with the Ocular Device.
Beth: Are we sure we want to do this? Look at our own alternate lives?
Jerry: You're right. Maybe we should just play Yahtzee--  Give me those!
Beth: What do you see?
Jerry: Whiteness... Pure whiteness.
Johnny Depp : You're my best friend, Jerry Smith. I love doing cocaine with you.
Jerry: Whoa! I love doing cocaine with you too, Johnny Depp!
Beth:  Haven't we spent enough time on you?  I'm performing surgery... but not on a horse, on a human!
Jerry: That's great, Beth! You always wanted to be a real surgeon.
Beth:  I am a real surgeon.
Jerry: Ahh, uh-- Summer's turn!
Summer: Finally! I don't see anything.
Beth: Well, you should select a different timeline, I mean, if your father and I achieved our dreams, there's a chance you weren't even born-- That came out wrong, that came out very wrong.
Summer: Fine, I'll find a world where you bothered to have me.  We're playing Yahtzee.
Beth: Yahtzee's fun. We love Yahtzee.
Jerry: It's a fun game for fun families! Hey, could I get those goggles back for a second?
Int. Smith Residence. Rick and Morty are sitting in the living room watching TV.
Announcer : It's a 45 horsepower with anti-lock brakes, and it's the official car of Mr. Sneezy 3D. It's the brand-new Sneezy XL. The horn when you honk it makes a sneeze noise.  It's polite, it's right, and it's Sneezy Deezy Mc-fucking Deluxe.
Mr. Sneezy 3D : Oh, I'm Mr. Sneezy! Achoo!
Morty: Huh, seems like TV from other dimensions has a somewhat looser feel to it.
Rick: Yeah, it's got an almost improvisational tone.
Announcer : It's in theaters now! Coming this summer: Two brothers. In a van. And then a meteor hit. And they ran as fast as they could, from giant cat monsters. And then a giant tornado came. And that's when things got knocked into 12th gear.
A Mexican armada shows up. With weapons made from Two--tomatoes. And you better bet your bottom dollar that these two brothers know how to handle business. In: Alien Invasion Tomato Monster Mexican Armada Brothers, Who Are Just Regular Brothers, Running In a Van From an Asteroid and All Sorts of Things THE MOVIE!
Hold on, there's more! Old women are coming, and they're also in the movie, and they're gonna come, and cross-attack these two brothers. But let's get back to the brothers, because they're-- they have a strong bond. You don't want to know about it here, but I'll tell you one thing: The moon, it comes crashing into Earth. And what do you do then? It's two brothers and--and th-they're - It's called Two Brothers. Two brothers!  It's just called Two Brothers.
Int. Smith Residence. Jerry, Beth, and Summer are in the kitchen with the Ocular Device.
Beth: Holy crap, I am winning a Nobel Prize.
Jerry:  Come on! Time's up!  I'm taming a lion! No, wait, uhh there are film cameras. I might be a lion-tamer in a movie.  You get the idea. I work with lions.
Summer:   Ooh, we're not playing Yahtzee,  we're playing Chutes and Ladders. It seems like when I exist, life gets a little more, I don't know, predictable?
Beth: When two people create a life together, they set aside their previous lives as individuals.
Jerry: Gimme a break! We're not heroes for having unprotected sex on prom night.
Beth: Oh, I get it. Now that you know you could have had it better, you resent me for holding you back.
Jerry: Well now that we know you think the tables are turning, we know you thought there were unturned tables!
Beth:  What are you talking about?
Jerry: All this time, you've been thinking, "What if that loser Jerry hadn't talked me out of the abortion?"
Summer: Um--
Jerry: Well now you know: you'd be a doctor.  Whoop-dee-doo. You'd also be drinking wine, alone in a house full of exotic birds. And I'd be on DiCaprio's yacht--  banging Kristen Stewart!
Summer: You thought about getting an abortion?
Beth: Everyone thinks about it. Obviously, I'm the version of me that didn't do it. So you're welcome.
Jerry: Yeah, you're welcome.
Summer: Yeah, thank you guys so much. It's a real treat to be raised by parents that force themselves to be together instead of being happy.
Rick:  Hey, do we have any wafer cookies?  Mm!  Oh, boy. Looks like you guys have been checking out alternate lives and realizing you don't have it as good, huh? That's too bad. You know, me and Morty are having a blast, We just discovered a show called "Ball Fondlers". I mean, I don't want to rub it in or anything, but you guys clearly backed the wrong conceptual horse.
Int. Smith Residence. Rick and Morty are sitting in the living room watching the action-packed title sequence to “Ball Fondlers”.
Rick: I'm in heaven right now.
Morty: This might be the best day of my life.
Int. Smith Residence. Jerry, Beth, and Summer are in the kitchen.
Beth: So now what do we do?
Jerry: That show "Ball Fondlers" sounded kind of interesting.
Summer: Dad!
Jerry: What? They're having fun in there! What do you guys want from me? Every family on this block has to wonder if they're together by choice. Our family just has inter-dimensional goggles to show us for a fact that we're not.
Summer: Well, I'm leaving!
Beth: You can't leave, you're 17!
Summer: Yeah, and I'm not pregnant. I'm gonna have better judgment than you guys had at my age. I'm gonna... move to the southwest and-- I don't know, do something with turquoise.
Int. Smith Residence. Rick and Morty are sitting in the living room watching TV.
Announcer : It's Saturday Night Live! Starring A Piece of Toast! Two guys with handle-bar mustaches! A man painted silver who makes robot noises! Garmanarnar! Three s-- uh uh, uh, uh, I'll get back to that one. A hole in the wall, where the men can see it all, and returning, for his 25th consecutive year: Bobby Moynihan!
Rick: Interesting fun fact, uh… Moynihan and Piece of Toast hate each other. Apparently they've got some real creative differences.
Fake Doors Salesman : Hey, are you tired of real doors, cluttering up your house, where you open 'em, and they actually go somewhere?  And you go in another room? Get on down to "Real Fake Doors"! That's us. Fill a whole room up with 'em. See? Watch, check this out!  Won't open. Won't open. Not this one, not this one. None of 'em open! FakeDoors.com is our website, so check it out for a lot of really great deals on fake doooooooors!
Morty: Hey, wait a minute, Rick. Wh-- I thought this was a commercial. Wh-what's going on? I mean--
Rick: Relax, Morty. Don't-don't worry about it. Let's just just see where this goes.
Fake Doors Salesman :  Step on it, we all got places to be!  Son of a bitch!
Morty: See, that must be where he lives. OK...
Rick: Huh. Making himself a sandwich now..
Fake Doors Salesman :  Hey everybody! So this is my house, I just made a sandwich, peanut butter and jelly, still here, still selling fake doors!
Morty: What?!
Rick: Oh my God! It's still the commercial!
Fake Doors Salesman : We have fake doors like you wouldn't believe! What are you worried about? Come get fake doors. Call us up, and order some fake doors today. Don't even hesitate, Don't even worry and don't even...
Rick: All right, I'm bored. Change it.
Morty: Wait wait, Rick! Hold on hold on...
Fake Doors Salesman : ...give it a second thought. That's our slogan. See it on the bottom of the screen, below our name. Here's another slogan, right below that one. What are you worried about? Come get fake doors! Get in here quick, get out quicker, with an arm of fake doors in you arms.
Morty: Okay, okay, you can change it.
Fake Doors Salesman : Don't even worry about it!
Gazorpazorpfield :  I hate Mumunmunundsdays. And I really could go for some enchiladas.
Morty: Hey Rick, that's pretty cool! It's just like Garfield, only instead, it's Gazorpazorpfield.
Rick: Hey, isn't Gazorpazorp where-where uh, where those Sex robots came from, remember? That whole thing?
Morty: Yeah hey, that's pretty, pretty that's true. That's right!
Rick: Yeah. Let's watch some more Gazorpazorpfield!
Gazorpazorpfield : Hey Jon, it's me, Gazorpazorpfield. Boy, fuck you, Jon. You dumb, stupid, idiot.
Jon : Come on, Gazorpazorpfield, go easy on me, huh?
Gazorpazorpfield : You dumb, stupid, weak, pathetic, white, white uh, uh guilt, white guilt, milquetoast piece of human garbage.
Jon: Jeez, Gazorpazorpfield, that's-- you know you're pretty mean to me, but that takes the cake.
Gazorpazorpfield : I don't give a fuck! I'm Gazorpazorp-fucking-field, bitch!  Now give me my fucking enchiladas!
Morty: Hey, Rick, you know, di-did they use Bill Murray for this? Sounds a lot like Bill Murray.
Rick: No, Morty, it's Lorenzo Music. In this reality, he's still alive.
Morty: Oh, okay, was his name Lorenzo Music?
Rick: Yeah, I'm pretty sure. He also did that voice of that one guy from Ghostbusters, which is really strange, because it's the same character Bill Murray played in the movie. But then, when they made the movie Bill Murray did the voice of Gazorpazorp-- or Garfield, I mean.
Morty: Yeah, that's pretty cool, Rick. So all that happened in this reality too?
Rick: I don't know. Just making conversation with you, Morty. What do you think? I-I-I-I know everything about everything?
Int. Smith Residence. Jerry and Beth are in the kitchen.
Beth: Did you really talk me out of the abortion?
Jerry: Well, we... we blew a tire on the way to the clinic.
Beth: I think, in my head, I was doing it all for the kids. And now the first kid is going to... do something with turquoise.
Jerry: Which is either code for crystal meth, or a gateway to it.
Beth: So, we didn't do the kids any favors. So, we should stay together for each other and ourselves... or...
Jerry: Or?
Int. Smith Residence. Rick and Morty are sitting in the living room watching TV.
Spokesman : Man. Woman. And now, trunk man? We know science has created men that have a trunk that allows them to have sex with both male and female partners. But we don't like the idea of these people getting married. Put a line in the sand everybody--, people! Vote no on proposition XW2.
Suspender Guy : The act that says that gay uh trunk people can get married. Who needs it?
Garbageman : Not on my watch!
Spokeman : Paid for by Michael Denny and The Denny Singers.
Trunkperson : Hi, I'm a trunk person. And I want I-I feel love in my heart, too, just like you. I want to be able to express that love, with both a man and a woman. And I won't be able to if Denny and The Denny Singers get their way.
New Yorker : Hey, let the trunk people have sex and get married, huh?
Spokesman : Paid for by... Trunk People.
Mr. Tophat Jones : Oh, I love me Strawberry Smiggles! Ooh, I hope nobody ever gets my hands on me, and tries to steal my Strawberry Smiggles. I'm going to eat every last one of them, because and then they'll be in my stomach, and nobody will ever be able to eat them. Except for me, because they're going to be all inside my stomach. I'm my name is Mister... Tophat Jones, and God forbid anyone ever take my sniggy, little pig-dul smiggles. I'm keeping 'em all for me.
Last bite. Oh, now they are all resting comfortably in my stomach. Ooh, am I feeling good.
Mr. Tophat Jones : No! Get away from me! Get away from me and my Strawberry Smiggles! No!   Jesus Christ! Jesus Christ! It hurts! My entrails are out! Why would you even want to eat these? They're-they're soaked with my stomach acid! Oh, Jesus Christ! Lord and savior and spirit! Save me! Take me to the light! Oh, my God, I see Demons! I see demons are coming!
Morty: Jeez, Rick. Oh my god! That's some pretty hardcore stuff, you know, for a cereal commercial.
Rick: Well, you know, Morty, I mean, you want to sell boxes of cereal, you gotta, you gotta, pump the gas a little. Pedal t-to the metal, Morty.
Announcer : In a world, where muscular mannies are coming, and they're coming strong, there's only three unmuscular Michaels.
Unmuscular Michael 1 : Get down! Hurry, run!
Muscular Mannies:
Announcer : And that's when real - Turbulent - Juice is coming, and you gotta take care of it. With Turbulent Juice, turbulent tables, no room is safe from the turbulent power of Turbulent Juice.
Morty: What in the hell?
Rick: Sex sells, Morty.
Morty: Sex sells what? W-was that a movie, or like, does it clean stuff?  Hey, Dad. W-w-what's going on?
Jerry: Oh, your mother and I are going to be spending some time apart, Morty. And your sister found out she was an unwanted pregnancy.
Morty: W-w-w-what?
Rick: Speaking of  what, Morty,  what should we  watch next? What about this?
Police Chief : Baby Legs, you're a good detective… but not good enough, because of your baby legs. So I'm partnering you up with Regular Legs.
Regular Legs : Hey there.
Baby Legs : Detective, I'm-- this is upsetting to me, because I feel like I don't need no regular-leg partner.
Police Chief : Baby Legs, don't talk back to me. Good luck you two, there's a criminal to kill.
Regular Legs : Wow! You sure found this guy quick!
Baby Legs : Uh, yeah, because I'm a good detective.
Regular Legs :  Look, Baby Legs, it's the criminal!
Criminal  : Oh, fuck it, I'm the killer. I'm running, running real quick.
Baby Legs : Baby Legs, here we go!  That's the sound I make, when I'm trying to run fast.  All right, I'm not going to get him. I'm, I-I just learned a real valuable lesson.
Regular Legs : I'm coming, Baby Legs! I'm Regular Legs!  We got him!
Baby Legs : Hey, that was good team work.
Police Chief : Baby Legs, and Regular Legs, I'm proud of you two for working together, and Baby Legs, I know it was hard for you to come to the conclusion that you need a partner. But I'm proud of you that you did it.
Baby Legs : Hey thanks, chief!
Police Chief : Now get the fuck out of here!
Rick: Pretty cool, huh, Morty?  Oh.
Jerry: Uh, I thought it was cool.
Rick: I don't give a fuck what you think, Jerry.
Int. Smith Residence. Summer is in her room, packing clothes into her backpack.
Morty:  Hey, uh Y-Y-Y-You doin' okay? I-I-I kind of know how you feel, Summer.
Summer: No, you don't. You're the little brother. You're not the cause of your parents' misery. You're just a symptom of it.
Morty: Can I show you something?
Summer: Morty, no offense, but a drawing of me you made when you were 8 isn't gonna make make me feel like less of an accident.
Morty:  That, out there? That's my grave.
Summer: Wait, what?
Morty: On one of our adventures, Rick and I basically destroyed the whole. World. So, we bailed on that reality, and we came to this one. Because in this one, the world wasn't destroyed. And in this one, we were dead. So we came here, a-a-and we buried ourselves, and we took their place. And every morning, Summer, I eat breakfast 20 yards away from my own - rotting - corpse.
Summer: So, you're not my brother?
Morty: I'm better than your brother. I'm a version of your brother you can trust when he says, "Don't run". Nobody exists on purpose. Nobody belongs anywhere. Everybody’s gonna die. Come watch TV?
Int. Smith Residence. Rick and Jerry are sitting in the living room watching TV.
Announcer : Mrs. Sullivan always planned to leave everything to her cats. But sometimes, plans need a helping paw. What are the kitties to do, but buckle together and work as a team.
Business Man : Mrs. Sullivan, I uh, please forgive me for being forward, but your eyes are so beautiful!
Jerry: Wait, this is an actual movie?
Announcer : This fall, sparks will fly!
Business Man :  Mrs. --Ooh, Sullivan-- ohh...
Announcer : Between one guy, who can't get a break...
Business Man : There's something about you, Mrs. Sullivan.
Announcer : ...and nine cats who break all the rules. Last Will and Testa-meow: Weekend at Dead Cat Lady's House 2.
Jerry: Well, somebody in Hollywood just lost their job.
Announcer : Written and directed by Jerry Smith.
Jerry: I wrote and directed that? What am I, nuts?
Rick: Hey Morty, you just missed a preview for your Dad's "Citizen Kane".
Morty: Doesn't matter.
Jerry: Hey, if your, uh, mother and I had to split custody - who would you guys choose?
Summer: Doesn't matter.
Jerry:  Oh...
News Anchor : Breaking News: Academy Award-winning actor Jerry Smith is leading police on a slow-speed pursuit after suffering an apparent breakdown.
Jerry: Don't even think about it.
Rick: Come on, Je- Are you kidding me, Jerry? It's just a bunch of dumb tabloid crap.
Jerry:  It's my life, and we're watching it.
Beth:   You did it, Beth. You really nailed it. You're a surgeon. A human surgeon. Yay you win.
Jerry: Where the hell am I going?
Rick:  What are you asking me for Jerry?  I'm sitting here  trying to figure out why the cops don't just take you out. Th--  they've got a clear shot to your head. I can't believe our tax dollars pay for this.
Beth :   Jerry? J-Jerry Smith?
Jerry : Beth Sanchez, I have been in love with you since high school. I hate acting, I hate cocaine, I hate Kristen Stewart. I wish you hadn't gotten that abortion, and I've never stopped thinking about what might've been.
Rick:   Hey, Ball Fondlers? Huh? Ball Fondlers?
Summer: Yeah, I could go for some Ball Fondlers.
Morty: Yeah, Ball Fondlers.
--After-Credit Scene-- Int. Smith Residence. The Smith Family and Rick are sitting in the living room watching TV.
Hamster News Anchor : Ha-ha, Hamster-in-Butt-World Weather is done, and now it's sports time, coming up.
Female Hamster : Oh, hello there!
Male Hamster : Good day to you, Miss.
Beth: So, the hamsters live inside the rectums of those people?
Rick:  Yeah, sweetie, they-- that's where they live.
Jerry: Well, how does that work? I mean, do the butts look like little apartments inside?
Morty: Yeah! And can they like, leave the butt, and like walk around on their own?
Rick:  Look, I don't know! I'm watching the-- same thing you guys are.
Summer: Grandpa Rick, if they leave the butt, and the person wanders off, how would they find their butt person again?
Rick:  I don't know, Summer! I can't even hear the TV!  All right, that's it. We're just gonna go there, so you idiots can ask your stupid questions all day.
Jerry: Ooh! Family vacation!
TV: Coin collecting is considered the perfect hobby.
beautiful putt right there good birdie.
That's only the eighth birdie of the day.
Jerry: What? Why are you looking at me? You want to go outside? Outside?
Jerry: Outside?
Jerry: Are you kidding me?! Come on!
Summer: Oh, my God.
Morty: What's wrong?
Jerry: Your idiot dog!
Morty: Oh, he he didn't mean it, dad. Did you, snuffles? You're a good boy.
Jerry: Don't praise him now, Morty! He just peed on the carpet! Bad dog! Bad!
Rick: Morty, come on. I need your help tonight.
Jerry: Hey, wait, hold on a second, Rick. You wouldn't by any chance have some sort of crazy science thing you could whip up that might help make this dog a little smarter, would you?
Rick: I thought the whole point of having a dog was to feel superior, Jerry. If I were you, I wouldn't pull that thread. Come on, Morty.
Jerry: Listen, Rick, if you're gonna stay here rent-free and use my son for your stupid science, the least you could do is put a little bit of it to use for the family. You make that dog smart or Morty's grounded!
Summer: Ha-ha!
Morty: Aw, man!
Rick: Boy, you really got me up against a wall this time, Jerry.
Rick: All right, Ruffles What's his name?
Morty: Snuffles.
Rick: Snuffles, shake.
Rick: Roll over.
Rick: Go to the bathroom.
Jerry: Holy crap!
Summer: No way.
Rick: Yeah, you're at the top of your game now, Jerry. Have fun. Come on, Morty.
Morty: That was fantastic, Rick!
Rick: Yeah, Morty, if you like that, boy, you're you're really going to flip your lid over this one.
Morty: W-w-w-what is it?
Rick: It's a device, Morty, that when you put it in your ear, you can enter people's dreams, Morty. It's just like that movie that you keep crowing about.
Morty: You talking about "Inception"?
Rick: That's right, Morty. This is gonna be a lot like that, except, you know, it's gonna may--be make sense.
Morty: "Inception" made sense.
Rick: You don't have to try to impress me, Morty. Listen, tonight we're gonna go into the home of your math teacher, Mr. Goldenfold, and we're gonna incept the idea in his brain to give you A's in math, Morty. That way you can, you know, y-you're gonna help me with my science, Morty, all the time.
Morty: Geez, Rick, in the time it took you to make this thing, couldn't you have just, you know, helped me with my homework?
Rick: Are you listening to me, Morty? Homework is stupid. The whole point is to get less of it.
Rick: Come on, let's just get over there and deal with this thing. W-we're gonna incept your teacher. You're frustrating me.
Mrs. Pancakes: You don't know me!
Mr. Goldenfold:' Nice, Mrs. Pancakes real nice.
Commercial Announcer: Next week on "The days and nights of Mrs. Pancakes"
Mrs. Pancakes: You don't know me!
Mr. Pancakes: Then let me get to know yo, damn it!
Rick: Uh-oh! Spoilers!
Rick: I'm a full season behind.
Morty: Wow, Rick, I can't believe we're sitting around, standing around in Mr. Goldenfold's house. It's really weird.
Rick: It's about to get a whole lot weirder, Morty.
Mrs. Pancakes: Wheat thins. Wheat thins.
Mr. Goldenfold: I'll take two.
Mrs. Pancakes: Oh, I think you've had enough, sir.
Mr.Goldenfold: You don't know me.
Rick: All right, Morty, time to make our move.
Mr. Goldenfold: Make it bounce.
Mrs. Pancakes: No, you didn't.
Mr. Goldenfold: Oh, jiggle it now.
Mrs. Pancakes: You better stop with that.
Rick: Allahu  akbar! We're gonna take control of this plane! We're gonna 9/11 it unless Morty Smith gets better grades in math!
Rick: Hey! I said nobody move, buddy!
Mr. Goldenfold: The name's not buddy. It's Goldenfold. Nice to wheat you!
Rick: Take cover, Morty!
Mr. Goldenfold: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Morty: Ooohhh!
Rick: Goldenfold's got more control here than I anticipated. I mean, the guy teaches high-school math.  I didn't take him for an active dreamer. We've got to take him out so he wakes up, Morty but we can't get killed. If you get killed in someone else's dream, you die for real, Morty.
Morty: What?! Are you kidding me?! Ohhhhhh!
Rick: Don't be a baby! You avoid getting shot in real life all the time, Morty. Just do the same thing here, and we'll be fine!
Jerry: Now bring me my slippers.
Summer: Now, be my footstool, Snuffles.
Jerry: This is what I'm talking about. This is a dog.
Beth : Oh, yeah. This should play out just fine.
Jerry: You said the same thing, equally sarcastically, at our wedding and guess what?
Snuffles: Ooowwwwowowwaawaa!
Summer: Oh, my God! He's trying to tell us something.  That is so awesome.
Snuffles: Aaaawwaaaaawaawa!
Jerry: Aw, he's saying "I love lasagna".
Snuffles: Ooooyayawawa!
Summer: He's saying "I love Obama".  So cute! I'm posting this  online, like, right now.
Jerry: I should call Bob Saget. Is that still a thing?
Snuffles: Hmm?
Rick: Goldenfold, we're coming out! We just want to talk!
Mr.Goldenfold: Why would I negotiate with you?
Rick: Because we're both rational adults that don't want anything bad to happen. And because I have a human shield.
Mr. Goldenfold: Mrs. Pancakes! AAAAAAAAHHHH!!!!!
Plane Passengers: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Rick: Oh, no, Morty. His subconscious is panicking.
Plane Passenger: Oh no! Run!
Plane Passengers: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Rick: Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoooooaaaa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoooooaaaa!
Morty: Whooooa! Whoooooooa! Whoa! Whooooooooaaaaa!
Morty: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!
Rick: Relax, Morty. Look! Mrs. Pancakes has a parachute. Come on!
Mrs. Pancakes: Hey, you don't know me!
Morty: Oh, no, Rick, look! Goldenfold landed the plane, and he's created a  mechanical arm to pluck Mrs. Pancakes out of the air while he lets us fall - into a giant vat of lava!
Rick: Pretty concise, Morty. Looks like we've merely prolonged the inevitable. That's it, Morty! Prolonging the inevitable! Listen, if we go into Mrs. Pancakes' dream, everything will go 100 times slower, Morty. That'll buy us some time to figure this out!
Mrs. Pancakes: You don't know m-
Rick: All right, let's go.
Morty: Oh, man, Rick, this is pretty weird.
Rick: Don't judge, Morty.
Morty: Okay. All right, well Look, Mrs. Pancakes is right over there. I'll just go ask her to tell goldenfold not to kill us when she wakes up.
Rick: Whoa, whoa, Morty, the trick to incepting is making people think they came up with the idea. Listen to me. If we're gonna incept Mrs. Pancakes, we have to blend. I'll talk to you after lunch.
Sexualized S&M Monster: Ooh, hey!
Morty: Ooh, oh! Oh, man.
Sexualized S&M Monster: Come and join us.
Morty: I'm sorry. No, no.
Sexualized S&M Monster: Ooh, come here!
Morty: No, thanks!
Giant Frog Woman: Ooh, wow! - Come over here, baby!
Morty: No, I'm okay.
Morty: Whoa!
Morty : Summer?!
Summer: Hey, there, stranger. What do you think of these things?
Morty: Ohh! Oh! Gross! Gross!
Rick: Whoa, whoa, whoa! What's the matter with you, Morty? Calm down! You're kind of killing the vibe in here.
Morty: It's Summer!
Rick: Aw, geez. Looks like goldenfold has some predilections so shameful he buries them in the dreams of the people in his dreams, including a pervy attraction to your underage sister.
Summer: Can you blame him? Come on, old man, little boy. Let's make an inter-generational sandwich.
Rick: Oh, my God. Put some clothes on for the love of God Summer! Put some - I'm gunna puke! I swear to God I'm gunna puke!
Morty : Oh, my God! Put some clothes on, for Pete's sake! This is disgusting! I can't take it, Rick!
Centaur: Sexual hang-ups in the pleasure chamber are punishable by death! Off with their heads!
Rick: Time to go another dream deep, Morty!
Morty: What the hell? Why would Mr. Goldenfold's dream version of Mrs.
Pancakes' dream version of a Centaur be dreaming about a scary place like this, Rick?
Rick: Geez, I don't know, Morty. Wha-what do you want from me?
Scary Terry: Welcome to your nightmare, bitch! RAAAAAWWWRRR!
Rick: Oh, here we go!
Morty: Ooooooohhhhh! Holy crap!
Rick: Looks like some sort of legally safe knock-off of an '80s horror character with miniature swords for fingers instead of knives.
Scary Terry: I'm scary Terry. You can run, but you can't hide, bitch!
Jerry: Whoa! Hey, buddy. What you got going on there?
Snuffles: Snuffles fix. Make better. Humans understand snuffles now?
Summer: That is awesome!
Snuffles: Snuffles want to be understood. Snuffles need to be understood.
Jerry: Okay, yeah. I get what Beth was talking about. Fun's over.
Summer: Whoa, dad, you can't, like, endow a creature with sentience and then rip it away.
Jerry: Why not?
Summer: I don't know. It's Indian giving.
TV: A sophisticated predator, nature's perfect killing machine, the vicious wolf stalks its prey with purpose and skill. It was only with years of selective breeding and genetic altering that this noble beast was transformed into man's subservient little buddy.
Summer: Aw! Oh, my God! He recognizes the other dogs on TV.
Little Girl: "A," "b" his name is scary Terry "C," "d" he's very scary.
Rick: Holy crap! We have to escape into someone else's dreams, Morty!
Morty: Oh, man, oh, man, oh, man!
Little Girl: "E," "f" he'll design your death
Rick: The little girl!
Morty: Huh?
Little Girl: "J," "k," he'll really ruin your day.
Rick: Are you kidding me? This again? Oh, man, it looks like we've hit dream bedrock here, Morty.
Morty: Oh, geez, Rick. W-w-whoa, this isn't good.
Scary Terry: Nothing but fear from here on out, bitch!
Morty: Ohhhh!
Rick: Holy crap, Morty. He can travel through dreams. He can travel through dreams! We're so screwed!
Snuffles: Where are my testicles, Summer? ... Where are my testicles, Summer? They were removed. Where have they gone?
Summer : Oh, wow. That's an intense line of questioning, Snuffles.
Snuffles: Do not call me that!
Summer: AAAAAAAHHH!!!!!
Snuffles: "Snuffles" was my slave name. You shall now call me Snowball, because my fur is pretty and white.
Summer: Okay, Snowball, just calm down, okay? You're scaring me.
Snuffles: Scaring you?
Snuffles: Tell me, Summer, if a human was born with stumpy legs, would they breed it with another deformed human and put their children on display like the dachshund?
Summer: Uhhh ...
Jerry: Hey. Oh, wow. Okay, is is is everything okay in here?
Snuffles: Jerry, come to rub my face in urine again?
Jerry : No! No, we were uh, just seeing if Summer wanted to uh ...
Beth : G-Go on, um, one of our famous midnight family walks!
Summer: Yeah. Totally. Let's go.
Snuffles: You will walk when it is time to walk.
Rick: What are we here for again? Incepting? We're trying to incept-
Morty: We're trying to incept me to get an "A" in math?
Rick: Oh, yeah.
Scary Terry: Buckle up, bitch!
Morty: Ooooooaaahhh!
Morty: Man, he sure says "bitch" a lot!
Scary Terry: You can run, but you can't hide, bitch!
Rick: Hold on, Morty. Y-you know what? He keeps saying we can run but we can hide. I say we try hiding.
Morty: But that's the opposite of what-
Rick: Yeah, well, since when are we taking this guy's advice on anything?
Morty: Hey, you know what? You got a really good point there, Rick. Like, if the truth was that we could hide, it's not like he'd be sharing that information with us, you know? I-I-I think it's a good idea, Rick.
Rick: Worst-case scenario we're back to running.
Morty: Wow, you know what? I mean, it looks like we could have just hid this whole time. Boy, Rick, that was some good thinking.
Rick: Thanks, Morty. Yeah, it's nice to be on the same page every once in a while.
Scary Terry: You can run But you can't hide!
Rick: Oh, this is perfect, Morty. Look at that. He's getting sleepy. Just a little bit longer before he calls it a day. That's when we make our move.
Jerry: Snuffles, we didn't mean you any harm! This is a huge misunderstanding.
Summer: Dad, he wants to be called snowball.
Jerry: Well, I'm not calling him that. That's ridiculous.
Snuffles: You're being very aggressive, Jerry. Perhaps tomorrow Dr. Scraps will solve that problem with a bit of surgery.
Jerry: Huh! You think you can control me with a haircut?
Scary Melissa: Hi, honey. You're home early. How was your day?
Scary Terry: I don't want to talk about it!
Scary Melissa : Oh, of course! You never want to talk about it!
Scary Terry : Get off my back, bitch!
Scary Melissa : Out there. Not in here!
Scary Terry: Yeah, I know, I know. I shouldn't take my anger out on you or Scary Brandon. I love you, Melissa.
Scary Melissa: I love you, too, Terry.
Rick: Morty, this is perfect. After a little scary coitus, they should be fast asleep and then we'll incept him.
Rick: Looks like scary Terry's having a nightmare.
Morty: Oh, boy, Rick. I can only imagine what horrible things must, you know scare Scary Terry.
Scary Terry: Oh, no! I'm late to class, bitch! Oh, no! I'm not wearing any pants!
'
Monster Teacher: Ah, well, Mr. Terry, why don't you tell the whole class the proper wordplay to use when one is chasing one's victim through a pumpkin patch?
Scary Terry: Oh, uh, um ... "Bitch."
Monster Teacher: Oh, come on, Terry, you can't think of a pun involving pumpkins, bitch?
Morty: Hey, leave him alone!
Rick: Yeah, this is a bunch of bullcrap. Who cares what stupid pun you make when you kill someone? Why don't you let the poor guy say whatever he wants?
Monster Teacher: Well, I never! I-I see no reason to stand here and take this.
Rick: You're putting too much pressure on yourself, scary Terry. You know, I mean, y-you're perfectly scary enough as it is.
Morty: Hey, yo, scary T, don't even trip about your pants dawg. Here's a pair on us, fool.
Scary Terry: Aww, bitch. I don't know what to say.
Morty: You don't need to say anything. We got you, dawg.
Rick: You're our boy, dawg. Don't even trip.
Scary Terry: Oh, hey, it's you guys!
Scary Melissa: I haven't seen him this relaxed in years.
Scary Terry: If you guys ever need anything, just say the word.
Rick: As a matter of fact, Terry, there is something you could help us with.
Little Girl:' "Q," "r," you won't get very far.
Scary Terry: I always hated that song!
Scary Terry: These halves don't belong together, bitch!
Scary Terry: Sex is sacred!
Scary Terry : This is because you don't give Morty Smith good grades, bitch!
Mr. Goldenfold: Holy crap! God damn! I know one thing for sure I'm giving Morty an "A" in math, and that's my idea. That is an original thought.
Morty: What the hell?
Rick: Out of the frying pan dot, dot, dot, huh, Morty?
Morty: Oh, man, what's going on?
Rick: Well, it's possible that your dog became self-aware and made modifications on the cognition amplifier, then turned on Jerry, Beth, and Summer after learning about humanity's cruel subjugation of his species, but your guess is as good as mine, Morty.
Summer: I can't believe how mean snuffles got just because he's smart. This is why I choose to get C's.
Rick: Psst, Beth, Jerry, Summer.
Beth: Dad!
Jerry: Rick!
Summer: Oh, thank God, Morty.
Morty : Oh, you're welcome.
Rick: All right, let's get out of here. If we hurry we can set up camp in a sewer tunnel or something before the dogs completely take over.
Jerry: Whoa, whoa, whoa. We're not going anywhere. This is my house. I'm not abandoning it.
Rick: It's all over, Jerry. The dogs are on a path to total world domination. But, hey, at least they know not to piss on your carpet, right?
Jerry: Wait a minute. I have an idea.
Jerry: Gentlemen, a moment of your time.  See that? I'm peeing all over your special guns. That means I own them.
Snuffles: Bad person. Bad.
Rick: Ooh, great plan, Jerry.
Snuffles: Bring the boy to me. You were always kind to me, Morty. That's why I will leave you with your testicles. From now on, you will be my best friend and live by my side.
Morty: Th-thanks, snuffles.
Snuffles: Begin phase two.
Reporter: Fighting continues as the dog army captures the eastern seaboard. It appears clear at this time that the era of human superiority has come to a bitter end.
Reporter: Please! Please don't kill me!
Dog 1: What's she saying, Bill?
Bill: I think she's saying, "I love lasagna."
Morty: Mmm. Thank you, Fido.
Morty: Rick! I thought you were dead!
Rick: No, no, no, I was just playing dead. Good news, though, Morty. This whole thing's gonna be over really soon.
Morty: What?
Rick: It's a dream, Morty. We're in your dog's dream. The night the dogs captured us, after you cried and crapped your pants, we all went to sleep. Then I used my dream inceptors to put the two of us inside snuffles' dream.
Morty: But I-it's been like a whole year!
Rick: It's been six hours. Dreams move one one-hundredth the speed of reality, and dog time is one-seventh human time. So, you know, every day here is like a minute. It's like "Inception," Morty, so if it's confusing and stupid, then so is everyone's favorite movie.
Morty: Aw, man. I really liked this life. Well, at least I didn't really crap my pants.
Rick: No, no, that happened before you went to sleep, Morty. You're sleeping in your crap right now. Out of all the things that happened to you, that was the only real thing that, you know, is that you crapped your pants. I mean, it's a mess out there. I got some on my hands, Morty, and then I got it on the dream inceptor, and a piece fell in my mouth.
Morty: Aw, man, geez! Seriously?
Rick: Look, d-d-d-don't worry about it, Morty. Here, here take these, Morty. Take these.
Morty: Are these pills supposed to wake me up, or something?
Rick: Close. It's gonna make your kidneys shut down.
Morty: What?!
Rick: It's necessary for the plan, Morty. Don't even trip, dawg.
Dr. Dog: It's pretty bad, emperor snowball. We're gonna need to do another operation.
Snuffles: Anything. Anything for my precious Morty.
Accountant Dog: Sir, as your accountant, I must advise you that these medical expenses are putting you in serious financial jeopardy. You could lose your kingdom.
Snuffles: To hell with my kingdom, bean counter. I would trade it all for my human's health and happiness.
Accountant Dog: Do you think they would have done this for us?
Snuffles: We are not them! We are not them.
Snuffles: Assemble the troops. I've made a decision.
Snuffles: Taking over the human's world will lead to nothing but more heartbreak, more cruelty. Instead, we will go to a new world and colonize it with a society of intelligent dogs, one that will not make the same mistakes as humanity and one where pet insurance will be mandatory.
Morty: I'm gonna miss you, Snowball.
Snuffles: You can call me Snuffles, Morty, and I'm going to miss you, too, very much.
Beth: Jerry?
Jerry: I'm sorry. It's just like the end of "Old Yeller."
Beth: Oh, Jerry. You mean because it had dogs in it.
Morty: Wow! A whole world populated by intelligent dogs. I wonder what it'll be like, Rick.
Rick: I think it will be great, Morty. You know it could be developed in-into a very satisfying project for people of all ages. I mean, I'd watch it, Morty, for at least 11 minutes a pop. You know, may-maybe they'll do it board-driven.
Morty: You know, that's a real comforting idea, Rick.
Rick: What do you know, Morty? What do you know?
Scary Glenn: Hi, guys. I'm your new teacher for scary class. My name is scary Mr. Johnson. Uh, actually, you know what? That's my dad's name, so why don't you just call me scary Glenn, yeah? So, anyway, I understand your previous teacher was having you work on fundamentals of fear. Which is what is that? You know? So, uh, here here's what I say you can't learn anything until you learn how to chill.
Rick: Oooh! This is how you dream, bitch.
Open Int. Rick's garage.]
Rick: T-t-t-this is just sloppy craftsmanship.
Morty: Hey, Rick. Boy, sure is really especially beautiful out there today, huh?
Rick: Oh, yes, Morty. It's almost unbelievable, isn't it?
Morty: Yeah, you know? There's something about the air. And just the way the sunshine is.
Rick: Oh, sure, buddy. Yeah. Sure. B-brilliant. Very convincing.
Morty: Wh… convincing?
Rick: Oh! Responsive, too! In real time! I love it!
Morty: Uhhokay.
Beth: *robotic* I’m going to work. Morty, good morning. Dad, good morning. I am going to work. Goodbye.
Morty: What's with Mom?
Rick: Oh, what's with Mom? So, you're saying that she's acting weird? How soph—*burp*—isticated. Careful, guys. You're gonna burn out the CPU with this one.
Morty: Okay, you know what, Rick? You're acting weird, too.
Rick: Whatever, quote-unquote “Morty.”
Morty: Alright, well I'll see you after school.  Ow! Oof! Ugh! Damn it! I'm all right. I'm okay.
Mr. Goldenfold: Alright, who can tell me what 5 x 9 is?  Morty?
Morty: Uh, me?
Mr. Goldenfold: What is 5 x 9?
Morty: Um, you know, it's, uh, at least 40.
Mr. Goldenfold: Morty, that's exactly correct! 5 x 9 is at least 40! Come up here.
Jessica: Whoo! Way to go, Morty!
Mr. Goldenfold: Everybody, this is the best student. I want you to be the teacher today. *sits down at a desk* Teach us, Morty!
Rick: *spying from outside* Interesting…
Morty: W-w-w-what do you want me to teach you?
Student: Ooh, ooh! How do you make concentrated dark matter?
Mr. Goldenfold: Oh, that's a good question.
Morty: Concentrated huh?
Mr. Goldenfold: Concentrated dark matter. The fuel for accelerated space travel. Now, do you know how to make it?
Morty: Uhhh…
Jessica: Come on, Morty. Isn't your grandpa, like, a scientist?
Morty: Oh, yeah, but, you know, he told me that I shouldn't go around spouting off about, you know, his science and stuff.
Jessica: I bet you've seen him make concentrated dark matter a lot. You know, if you tell us, I’ll be your girlfriend.
Morty: Uh, y-you will?
Mr. Goldenfold: Seems like a rare opportunity, Morty.
Rick: *kicks open the door* Morty, u-uh, come on. There's a family emergency.
Mr. Goldenfold: Stop right there! If he leaves, I'm giving him an F!
Rick: He doesn't care.
Morty: Aw, man!  Rick, I have to go back! I think I was about to get married! *falls down* Ugh!
Rick: Take a shower with me, Morty.
Morty: What?!
Rick: Listen to me, Morty. Get your clothes off and get in the shower right now. *strips* Y-y-y-you got to trust me, Morty.
Morty: Ugh! I'm gonna get an F in class, Rick. *strips*
Rick: Morty, that's not class. T-t-t-that wasn't your teacher. This isn't your school. This entire world is not the world. We're inside a huge simulation chamber on an alien spaceship.
Morty: Wait a minute. W-what are you talking about?
Rick: It’s all fake *burps* Morty, all of it. Nanobotic renderings, a bunch of… crazy, fake nonsense, Morty. I couldn't say so until we got in the shower. They won't monitor us in here.
Morty: Monitor us?! *looks around and tries to cover himself* W-who?!
Rick: Zigerion scammers, Morty. The galaxy's most ambitious, least successful con artists. You know, it's lucky for us they're also really uncomfortable with nudity.
Morty: Aw, come on, Rick. If everyone’s just gonna be insane today, at least let me be insane with Jessica.
Rick: I can’t let you do that, Morty.
Morty: Give it to me!
Rick: No! You give it to me!
Morty: G-g-give it!
Rick: Morty, come on! Morty!
Morty: No, Rick!
Zigerion 1: Oh, god, sir! They're still naked! Ugh.
Prince Nebulon: Well, check every five quintons and tell me when they're not!
Zigerion 1: I think we should make Kevin look, sir.
Kevin: What?! No! W-w-why would you even say that?
Stu: Uh, sir, we have a situation over here.
Prince Nebulon: If there's a wiener on that monitor, I swear to god, Stu.
Stu: Something is drawing a lot of processing power. Oh, wait. No wonder.  There's another real human in the simulator.
Jerry: Okay, Jerry, big pitch meeting. Make-or-break time. *trims nostril hairs while driving* You can do this.
Prince Nebulon: How did this happen?! Where's the Abductions Department?
Zigerion 2: Hey, man, Abductions just follows the acquisition order.
Zigerion 3: Don't put this on Acquisitions! We only acquire humans that haven't been simulated!
Kevin: Well, Simulations doesn't simulate anybody that's been abducted, so—
Prince Nebulon: Oh, I see! Oh, oh! It was no one's fault. Oh, okay. I'm sorry. Well, then, problem solved. Oh, wait no. *shouts* There's still another human in here! Who is he?
Stu: Rick's son-in-law, Jerry Smith. So far, he hasn't noticed he's in a simulation.
Prince Nebulon: *sighs* Well, cap his sector at 5% processing, keep his settings on auto, and we'll deal with him later. Rick Sanchez is the target.
Jerry: *inhales deeply* Gotta relax. It's just a pitch. Gotta relax.
Radio: This is earth radio. And now, here's…human music.
Jerry: Hmm. Human music. I like it. *rocks head side to side in rhythm with the music*
Morty: Rick!
Rick: Uhp, uhp, uhp! Morty, keep your hands off your ding-dong! It's the only way we can speak freely. Look around you, Morty. Do you really think this world is real? You'd have to be an idiot not to notice all the sloppy details. Look, that guy's putting a bun between two hot dogs.
Morty: I don't know, Rick. I mean, I’ve seen people do that before.
Rick: Well, look at that old lady. She's, she's walking a cat on a leash.
Morty: Uh, Mrs. Spencer does that all the time, Rick.
Rick: Look, I-I-I don't wanna hear about Mrs. Spencer, Morty! She's an idiot! Alright, alright, there. W-what about that, Morty?
Morty: Okay, okay, you got me on that one.
Rick: Oh, really, Morty? Are you sure you haven't seen that somewhere in real life before?
Morty: No, no. I haven't seen that. I mean, why would a Poptart wanna live inside a toaster, Rick? I mean, that would be, like, the scariest place for them to live. You know what I mean?
Rick: You're missing the point, Morty. Why would he drive a smaller toaster with wheels? I mean, does your car look like a smaller version of your house? No.
Morty: So, why are they doing this? W-what do they want?
Rick: Well, that would be obvious to you, Morty, if you'd been paying attention.
Paramedic: We got the president of the United States in here! We need 10cc of concentrated dark matter, stat, or he'll die!
Morty: Concentrated dark matter! They were asking about that in class.
Rick: Yeah, it's a special fuel I invented to travel through space faster than anybody else. These Zigerions are always trying to scam me out of my secrets, but they made a big mistake this time, Morty. They dragged you into this. Now they're gonna pay!
Morty: Wait, wha, w-w-what are we gonna do?
Rick: We'll scam the scammers, Morty. And we're gonna take them for everything they've got.
Jerry: National Apple Farmers of America…
Jerry: Welcome to our ad agency. I'm Jerry Smith.  Alright. I'll just get to the pitch. Um, simple question, gentlemen, *hoarsely* what are apples? *clears throat* Excuse me. *drinks some water* Ahh. *coughs, clears throat* What are apples? *pulls poster board to the front of the room* Apples are food. And when do we need food? When we're hungry.  With that, I give you your new slogan!  Well, say something! Do you like it?
Mr. Marklevitz: Yes.
Jerry: You do?
All: Yes.
Jerry: So I sold it? I sold the idea?
All: Yes.
Jerry: Oh my god! Thank you!
All: *shaking each others’ hands* Thank you. You're welcome.
Jerry: Hey! I just sold my first pitch!
Old man: Slow down!
Woman: Lookin' good.
Mailman: My man!
Simulation Beth:  *answers phone* Hello.
Jerry: Guess who just sold the apples campaign.
Simulation Beth: Who just sold the apples campaign?
Jerry: Me! I guess it wasn't a rip-off of "got milk?" after all. Guess someone was wrong.
Simulation Beth: Yes.
Jerry: Well, all is forgiven, because right now, I’ve got an erection the size of an East Coast lighthouse, and I’m coming home to share it with my beautiful wife.
Simulation Beth: Okay.
Jerry: Wait, really?
Simulation Beth: Yes.
Jerry: Yes! See you in 10 minutes! *hangs up, shouts* Hey! I'm going to make love to my wife!
Woman: Lookin' good.
Old man: Slow down!
Mailman: My man! *glitches into a tree*
Morty: Aw, geez, Rick. I-I don't know if I like this plan,you know? I mean, crowds, t-t-t-they have a tendency to make me really nervous.
Rick: Morty, relax. It's just a bunch of 1s and 0s out there. You're gonna be fine.  Just follow my lead.  Yo, deejay, drop that beat.
Rick: Uh-oh, Morty. This crowd looks too small for one of our famous rap concerts. I don't think we can perform our new song, "The Recipe for Concentrated Dark Matter," for a crowd this tiny.
Morty: You got that right, Rick.
Rick: Now that’s more like it! Morty, here we go. Let me hear everybody say "hey-oh!" yeah!  All the ladies say, "yeah!"  Everybody over thirty, do this with your hands! Everybody with a red shirt, jump up and down!
Jerry: *kisses Beth, who is still in front of the phone* Mm. Mm. Mm. Yeah, don't move. Mm, mm, mm, mm! Mm!
Rick: Yo, everyone whose first name begins with an "L" who isn't Hispanic, walk in a circle the same number of times as the square root of your age times ten!  Run, Morty! Before the system reboots!
Jerry: Yeah! You like that? Now who's unremarkable? You hungry for apples? Are you hungry for apples?!
Jerry: Oh, my god. That's the best sex I've ever had in my life. It's… it's too good. I don't deserve this, Beth. I'm a fraud.
Morty: Oh, man, Rick! W-w-w-where we running to?
Rick: Out of the simulation, Morty. Normally, the chamber operates like a treadmill, with the virtual world disappearing behind us and being rendered in front of us as we move through it, but while it's frozen, Morty, we can get to…the edge. Here we go. *jumps off the edge*
Morty: Holy crap!
Rick: Come on, Morty.
Morty: *jumps off edge*
Zigerion: Sir, they're over the edge.
Prince Nebulon: Yes, they are. Just as planned. *evil laughter, others join in* Oh, this is going to be such a mindfuck!
Rick: Keep your eyes peeled for the central processing room, Morty. That's how we're gonna scam these idiots.
Morty: So, hey, why do these aliens keep coming after you, Rick, if you're so much smarter than them?
Rick: It's an obsession for them at this point. The Zigerions have been trying to outsmart me for years, Morty. Every time they do, I'm one step ahead of them. *finds central processing room* Aha! Here we go. *starts collecting chips* Grab as many processors as you can carry, Morty. These guys aren't good at much, but they're really good at making these chips.
Morty: I’ve got so many, I can barely hold them all! *holding chips in his shirt* Look at, look at this. Oops. I dropped one.
Rick: Don't worry about it, Morty. There's plenty of them, you little goofball.  Come here, Morty! Oh, I gotcha!
Morty: Come on, quit it, Rick! Quit it!
Rick: Nothing wrong with just a little bit of horseplay every now and then, little fella.
Morty: Wow. What do you know? Huh. That was easy.
Rick: Totes malotes, dawg.
Morty: Just kind of hard to believe, you know?
Rick: Believe it, Morty. And once again, I'm flying away with everything I can carry, and the Zigerions got nothing of mine.
Jerry: Mr. Marklevitz, do you have a minute to talk?
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes.
Jerry: Look, I’m a fraud. I mean, let's face it. "Hungry for apples" is just a rip-off of "Got milk?" It's almost identical.
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes.
Jerry: Okay. I deserve that. Um, I guess I'll just pack up my desk.
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes.
Jerry: *crying* Oh my god. Wait. You know what?! No! The milk people don't have a patent on simple rhetorical questions! Y-You— There's not even a single word in "Hungry for Apples" that's shared by "Got milk?" It's a completely different slogan. It's different! And I shouldn't be fired. I should be promoted!
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes.
Jerry: Yeah! Wait. Really?
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes.
Jerry: Yes! I mean, it may be derivative, but it's the most successful campaign to come out of this agency in a long time.
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes.
Jerry: I-I’m not saying it should win an award for commercials, but it could certainly be nominated for an award for commercials specifically about apples, like an Appley or something.
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes.
Jerry: Is there really an award called the Appley for apple-related ad campaigns?
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes.
Jerry: Could we nominate me?
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes.
Jerry: Holy crap!
Rick: Get in, Morty. I'm gonna be able to use these processors to make some real important science stuff.  Huh. I thought I entered the code right.
Prince Nebulon: Well, what's this? W-what could this possibly be? Because it looks like you're inside a simulation…inside a simulation. You're still on the ship. Game-day bucket go boom!
Cynthia: Sir, the, uh, doctor's appointment to examine the discoloration on your butthole flaps was—
Prince Nebulon: Too loud, Cynthia. Too loud and too specific.
Rick: Uhh…
Prince Nebulon: We've known how to make concentrated dark matter for a long time. But now we also know the code to your fabled safe, Rick Sanchez! All your most valuable secrets will now be ours!
Rick: Uh, yeah, until I get home before you and change the combination, you bunch of idiots!
Prince Nebulon: That is why you're never getting home. Get them!
Rick: RUN MORTY!
Morty: Oh my god!
Jerry: I got to tell you, this morning, I didn't even know this award existed. Now I'm holding one. And, um… Look, I want to say that today was the best day of my life But the truth is, it's, it's more meaningful than that.
Mailman: My man!
Jerry: Yes. Thank you, sir. I am finally complete!
Mailmen: My my my my man!
Jerry: Aah! What the hell?!  No.
Rick: Jerry?!
Morty: Dad!
Rick: What are you doing here? W-why are you dressed like a waiter? Screw it. We don't have time. Come on. *starts dragging Jerry with them*
Jerry: *sobbing* No!
Rick: Man up, Jerry! I may need you to work the lasers.
Morty: Oh, man! They're hot on our tail, Rick!
Rick: I guess they really do have concentrated dark matter.
Morty: Well, you know how to make it, too, right, Rick?
Rick: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh, check the engine room. We just need cesium, Plutonic quarks, and bottled water.
Morty: Whoa! It's all here, Rick!
Rick: Wow, Morty. Lucky break. Grab that bucket. Okay, two parts Plutonic quarks, one part cesium.
Morty: Okay. Uh-huh. Alright.
Rick: Now empty the water bottle into the bucket and pour it all into the fuel tank so we can get the hell out of here! What are you doing, Morty?! There's no time!
Morty: *freezes up*
Rick: Oh, no.
Jerry: What the…?
Rick: No!
Prince Nebulon: *laughing* Oh my god, Rick. How dumb are you? You're inside a simulation of a simulation…inside another giant simulation! *laughs harder* W-we never had the recipe for concentrated dark matter. But we do now! We do now, sucka!
Rick: You simulated my grandson's genitalia?! Y-y-you bunch of diabolical sons of bitches!
Zigerion 1: Kevin fought real hard to supervise that project.
Kevin: You said you weren't gonna tell anyone! I'm never gonna live this down, am I?
Rick: All right. Okay. All right, great. Wonderful. You win. Can we go home now?
Zigerion 1: I don't know. Can you?
Prince Nebulon: Ha! *fist bumps* Nice. Okay, okay. Show this gullible turd to his shuttle. I'm done with him. Oh, wait. Let me get a picture. *snaps a selfie of himself with Rick* Aww. Look at his face. He's trying to figure out if He's in a simulation still. Are you, Rick? Are you? *laughs, walks away* You're not. *walks back* Or are you?  *shouts after them* Oh, a-and, by the way, I don't have discolored butthole flaps. That was part of the simulation.
Cynthia: Oh. Uh, sir, should I cancel that appointment, then?
Prince Nebulon: *loudly* Yeah! Of course you should! *to Cynthia* No, keep it. Move it up, actually, if you can.
Rick: Hey, Jerry, don't worry about it. So what if the most meaningful day of your life was a simulation operating at minimum capacity?
Jerry: You know what, Rick? Those guys took you for a ride, too. You should try having a little respect for the dummies of the universe, now that you're one of us.
Rick: Maybe you're right, Jerry. Maybe you're right.
Prince Nebulon: All right, everybody. Two parts Plutonic quarks… One part cesium…. A-and listen, I’m sorry for shouting earlier. I-I couldn't ask for a better staff. I love you guys, and I love all your families. *readies water bottle* And the final ingredient…
Jerry: Whoa! What the hell?! W-what happened back there?
Rick: Why don't you ask the smartest people in the universe, Jerry? Oh, yeah. You can't. They blew up.
Jerry: So… What do you think?
Mr. Marklevitz: You're fired.
Jerry: Wha--? But t-this idea was tested in a state-of-the-art simulation.
Mr. Marklevitz: Well, then, it was a terrible simulation. Get out.
Mr. Marklevitz: Man, how does a guy like that go home and have sex with his wife?
Rick: Hey, Morty.
Morty: What?
Rick: Hey, little buddy. H-h-how you doing in here right now?
Morty: Aw, geez, Rick. What are you doing, man?
Rick: Y-y-you're a good kid, Morty. Y-you're a real l-little c-character, Morty.
Morty: Oh, boy.
Rick: You know, I had a really rocky road today, M-Morty. You're my little friend, aren't you? We had some good times together, huh, M-Morty? We You're a real true hero out in the field. You're a... You're a real trouper, huh, M-M-Morty?
Morty: Have you been drinking, Rick?
Rick: I really appreciate you, Morty.
Morty: O-okay, cool. A-alright, Rick
Rick: *suddenly aggressive, holds a knife to Morty’s throat* You little son of a bitch! Y-y- are you a simulation?! Huh?! Are you a simulation?!
Morty: No! No! No!
Rick: You little son of a bitch!
Morty: *terrified, gasps*
Rick: I-I-I’m sorry, Morty. Y-you're a good… You're a good kid, Morty.
Morty: Geez!
Rick: Y-you're a good… You're a good kid. *passes out*
Morty: Oh my god!
Rick: *snores*
Morty: W-w-what the hell? What a life.
Rick: Run!
Jerry, Beth, and Summer: *incoherent zombie noises*
Rick: Morty, do it! Hit the button now!
Morty: I can’t do it, Rick! They’re my parents and sister!
Rick: *holding off the clones* Morty, I already told you, it’s not your family! They’re clones from an alternate reality possessed by demonic alien spirits from another dimension’s future! Do you need a mnemonic device or something? Just hit the button already!
Beth: Morty, please. I love you, sweetheart.
Morty: Ohhhh…
Rick: Good work, Morty.
Rick: *holding up the device and smiling* Y-You know, these demonic alien spirits are really valuable!
Rick: You okay, Morty? Told you not to trust that tuna.
Morty: I just killed my family! I don’t care what they were!
Rick: I dunno, Morty. Some people would pay top dollar for that kinda breakthrough.
Morty: Y-You know what, Rick? That’s it! I-I’m done with these…insane adventures! That was really traumatizing! I quit! I’m out!
Rick: Whoa whoa whoa, *grabs Morty’s shoulder, stopping him* come on, Morty! D-D-Don’t be like that! The universe is a crazy and chaotic place!
Morty: *pushes Rick’s hands away* You’re the one that’s crazy and chaotic! Adventures are supposed to be simple! And fun!
Rick: Oh yeah, Morty. Yeah, t-t-that- that’s real easy to say from the sidekick position. But—But, uh, h-how about next time you be in charge, then we’ll talk about how simple and fun it is.
Morty: *suddenly excited* Seriously Rick?! Y-You’ll let me call the shots?
Rick: Okay, fine. But let’s make it interesting, Morty. I-I-If your adventure sucks, and we bail halfway through it, you lose the right to bitch about all future adventures. Plus, you have to do my laundry for a month.
Morty: Okay, all right, tough guy! But if my adventure's good... I get to be in charge of every third adventure!
Rick: Every 10th.
Morty: Deal. All right. Well, come on, let's get going.
Beth: Dad, the dishwasher's doing that thing again.
Rick: Washing dishes?
Beth: No. The opposite. Can you fix it?
Summer: Grandpa Rick, can you help me with my science homework?
Rick: Yeah just don't do it.
Summer: Grandpa!
Jerry: Hey, Rick, you got some kind of hand-shaped device that can open this mayonnaise jar?
Rick: Wow. Hat trick. All right, Morty, let's put a pin in this. I got to help your pathetic family.
Morty: Oh, that sounds like something a chicken would say. Bawk, bawk, bawk, bawk, bawk, bawk.
Rick: Oh, Morty, you done did it this time. It's on. I can't wait to watch your adventure lay a huge fart. As for you dingdongs... This is a Meeseeks box. Let me show you how it works. You press this.
Meeseeks: I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Look at me!
Rick: You make a request. Mr. Meeseeks, open Jerry's stupid mayonnaise jar.
Meeseeks: Yes, siree!
Rick: The Meeseeks fulfills the request.
Meeseeks: All done!
Jerry:  Wow!
Rick: And then it stops existing.
Summer: Oh, my God, he exploded!
Rick: Trust me, they're fine with it. Knock yourselves out just keep your requests simple. They're not gods.
Morty: All right! Get out of here now! Everybody out of here! I got a bet to win!
Beth: So many possibilities.
Summer: My mind is racing.
Jerry: If we're gonna use this thing, which I'm not even sure we should, we need to keep it simple.
Meeseeks: I'm Mr. Meeseeks!
Summer: I want to be popular at school!
Meeseeks: Ooh, okay!
Jerry: Summer, what did I just-
Meeseeks 2: Ooh, I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Look at me!
Beth: I want I want to be a more complete woman!
Jerry: Beth!
Meeseeks 2: Oh, yeah! Yes, ma'am!
Jerry: You guys are doing it wrong. He said "simple."
Meeseeks 3: Hey, there. I'm Mr. Meeseeks!
Jerry: Mr. Meeseeks, I would like to take two strokes off my golf game.
Meeseeks 3: Ooh, yeah! Can do!
Jerry: Nailed it.
Rick: God, Morty, what a boring start to an adventure. Why didn't we just go to Kentucky?
Morty: Rick, this is a fantasy-type world with creatures and all sorts of fantasy things. We're going on a quest, okay?
Rick: Can't wait.
Morty: Ahem. Excuse me! We are two humble heroes in search of adventure!
Rick: Oh, my God, so embarrassing.
Villager : At last! Two heroes! You must help us! This village is terribly poor, yet the giant that lives in the clouds above has untold treasures!
Morty: You know what? I accept your call to adventure, good sir, kind sir. Come on, Rick. There's a giant in the clouds!
Rick: Yeah. Beginner's luck.
Meeseeks 1: In conclusion, a friendship with Summer Smith is the most valuable and enriching experience of your young lives. I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Look at me! Thank you!
Principal Gene V.: Uh, Mr. Meeseeks, was it? Yeah. Gene Vagina. Listen, I'm in a bit of custody thing with my ex and was wondering- - No, I'll get your info from Summer.
Beth: I got pregnant at 17. I mean, I still put myself through veterinary school. Yes, I'm successful, but what if I hadn't...-- I'm just saying, somewhere along the way, I lost that wide-eyed girl from muskegon.
Meeseeks 2: She's still there, Beth.
Beth: Well, her waistline isn't.
Meeseeks 2: Beth, having a family doesn't mean that you stop being an individual. You know the best thing you can do for people that depend on you? Be honest with them, even if it means setting them free.
Beth: You're saying I should leave Jerry.  I can't believe I'm finally having this conversation.
Waiter : More wine?
Beth: I think I've had enough.
Meeseeks 3: Remember to square your shoulders, Jerry.
Jerry: Yeah, yeah. I got it.
Meeseeks 3: That's okay. I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Look at me! Try again and keep your head down.
Jerry: Okay, well, which is it? Square my shoulders or keep my head down?
Meeseeks 3: Well, it's both. But most importantly, you got to relax.
Jerry: You know what, Mr. Meeseeks? I don't think this is working. I give up.
Meeseeks 3 : I'm sorry, Jerry, but it doesn't work like that. I'm Mr. Meeseeks. I have to fulfill my purpose so I can go away. Look at me.
Jerry: Well, make yourself comfortable, because I suck.
Meeseeks 3: No, Jerry, I'm the one who SUCKS! Let me try something.
Meeseeks 4: I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Look at me!
Meeseeks 3: Hi, Mr. Meeseeks! I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Look at me.
Meeseeks 4: Hi!
Meeseeks 3: Can you help me get two strokes off of Jerry's golf swing?
Meeseeks 4: Can do! I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Is he keeping his shoulders squared?
Meeseeks 3: Ooh, he's trying!
Rick: All right, Morty. We're in your stupid giant's castle. What do we do next?
Morty: Would you just relax, Rick? All we got to do is find the treasure room, okay? It's nice and simple. You know, I'm sorry everything's going so smoothly and adventurously.
Rick: Uh-oh, Morty. Startin' to get a little hairy. What do you want to do, boss?
Morty: Come on, hurry. Behind this cookie jar.
Giant: Fee! Fi! Fo! Fum!
Rick: Just give up, Morty. This is game over. I'll take us home right now. You just say the word.
Morty: No way, Rick. This is all part of it. Adventures have conflict. Deal with it.
Giant: I smell the blood of- whoop!
Morty: Holy crap.
Rick: Oh, boy. He looks pretty bad down there, Morty. Looks like he's bleeding out.
Giant woman: Oh, Jesus! Dale! You sons of bitches! Oh, man. Hello, 911? My husband has been attacked by tiny people! He's dying!
Detective: Hey, look, we get it. You're little, you're down on your luck, you think, "hey, he's a giant. Why don't we break into his home, rob him, and murder him?"
Morty: Th-th but that's not how it went down!
Detective: Oh, well, it's going down like that. You're both going down like that.
Rick: Ooh, boy, Morty, you're really showing me how it's done. Real straightforward and fun.
Summer: Like, letting go of the need to be popular is what makes people like you.
Beth: The most important love you can receive is from yourself.
Meeseeks: Okay, Jerry, you got to just choke up on the club!
Jerry: Well, which is it, choke up or follow-through?!
Meeseeks: Aww, come on, Jerry, we've been over this. You know you got to do both! This is as frustrating for us as it is for you.
Jerry: Don't tell me that! That just puts pressure on me!
Meeseeks: Just try to relax.
Jerry: You try to relax! Have you ever tried to relax?! It is a paradox!  Ugh, these Meeseeks, huh? Kind of a handful. I can't imagine what you two must be going through.
Beth: Our Meeseeks have been gone for hours, Jerry.
Jerry: You're kidding me.
Beth: Notice anything different?
Jerry: I'm sorry. Hours?
Summer: Dad, mom is a beautiful woman! Look at her! You will lose her!
Meeseeks: Uhh... Hey, Jerry, you mind if we get back to the task at hand? Meeseeks don't usually have to exist this long. It's getting weird.
Judge: Order in the court! Before the jury reaches its verdict, I just want to say that I consider you both very guilty.
Rick: Oh, great adventure, buddy. Rick and Morty go to giant prison. You know, if somebody drops the soap, it's gonna land on our heads and crush our spines, Morty. You know, it'll be really easy to rape us after that.
Morty: We're gonna be okay, Rick.
Rick: How? They took my portal gun. This is an open-and-shut case, Morty. You know, what do you think's gonna happen, some magical angel's gonna show up and then-
Giant Lawyer: Fee! Fi! Fo! Fum! I smell the violation of civil liberties! Your honor, I'm from a tiny-persons advocacy group and I have here in my hand a motion to dismiss. These little men were never read their giant rights and are therefore free-fi to fo-home.
Rick: W-what the hell is he talking about?
Giant Lawyer: They're free to go, is what I meant. I'm deconstructing our our our thing we say. We're giants. Nobody got that? Whatever.
Morty: Oh, man, what did I tell you, Rick? We did it!
Rick: All right, Morty, looks like the portal gun's still working. You ready to head home?
Morty: Oh, yeah, you'd like that, wouldn't you, Rick? Well, you know what? We're not bailing out just yet. You know, we're gonna go find some treasure or something and and we're gonna bring it to those villagers.
Rick: Morty, cut your losses. This is obviously awash.
Morty: Yeah, you were saying that back when we first got arrested, but here we are, you know, walking down the courthouse steps.
Rick: Oh, boy, Morty.
Morty: Usually, walking down the courthouse steps is the easy part of the adventure.
Rick: What do you say, Morty?
Morty: I say give me a hand, sidekick.
NOTE: to make this easier an * will be put next to meeseeks every time a different meeseeks talks.
Jerry: Everybody shut up! Let me try!  Damn it! Damn it! Damn it!
Beth: I'm going out.
Jerry: Wait. What?
Beth: Well, you're busy. I'm hungry. I thought I'd go out. Do you want me to be happy or do you want me to be in prison?
Jerry: Whoa, whoa, where in the hell is, I'll take you to dinner.
All the Meeseeks: AWWWWWWW!
Jerry: Hey, you know what? It's hard being me, too. I'll be right there. Look, I've got a marriage to keep together. At this point, my golf swing is more your problem than mine.
Meeseeks: I can't take it anymore. I just want to die!
Meeseeks *: We all want to die! We're Meeseeks! Why did you even rope me into this?
Meeseeks *: 'Cause he roped me into this!
Meeseeks *: Well, him over there, he roped me into this!
Meeseeks *:Well, he roped me into this!
Meeseeks *: Well, what about me? He roped me into this.
Meeseeks *: Well, that one over there roped me into this.
Meeseeks *: Well, he roped me into this.
Rick: Yeah, Morty, this is the part of the story everybody loves scaling down 650,000 oversized steps.
Morty: All right, okay, you know, if this was a story, this part wouldn't be included, stupid.  Hey, Rick, what do you know? Look down there. Looks like some kind of tavern or something built right into the side of the step.
Morty: Oh, wow, Rick. Now, this is more like it. Look, there's little staircase-shaped people in here. All kinds of crazy characters. This place is great, you know? It's whimsical and fun.
Rick: What are you looking at, motherfucker?
Morty: Easy, Rick.
Waitress: Pay them no mind. Those stair goblins can be moody. Now, what can I getcha? We've got skarlog poppies, flurlow, halzingers, bloogies, juicy time babies.
Rick: Yeah, yeah, yeah, how about some scotch whiskey? You got any of that around here? Or just a bunch of nonsense words?
Morty: Rick... We'll have two bloogies, please. And, uh, we were wondering, is there a faster way two heroes could get down these stairs?
Slippery: Y'all need to ride down the stairs? My name is slippely-slippery stair. I'll take you down there for 25 shmeckels.
Rick: 25 shmeckels? I don't know how much I don't know what that is. Is that a lot? Is it a little?
Waitress: That's exactly how much I spent on my big fake boobies.
Mr. Booby Buyer: Hi, I'm Mr. Booby Buyer. I'll buy those boobies for 25 shmeckels.
Waitess: It's a tempting offer, but I'm gonna have to decline.
Mr. Booby Buyer: Rats! What a shame.
Rick: Morty, your adventure's in a spiral. For real, man, time to pull out.
Morty: You keep heckling my adventure, Rick! You know why?
Rick: Uh, because it's lame?
Morty: It's because you're petty! You know, how many times have I had to follow you into some nonsensical bull crap? I always roll with the punches, Rick. Why can't you? Look, I got to take a leak, and when I come back, if you haven't learned how to lighten up, don't be here!
Rick: Whatever.
Meeseeks: It's become clear-look at me- that if we concentrate all our efforts on Jerry's follow-through, we will solve this problem. I'm Mr. Meeseeks.
Meeseeks *: I'm Mr. Meeseeks. Look at me. The only thing that's clear is that choking up is the one true solution.
Meeseeks 3: Look at me. I'm Mr. Meeseeks. I've been trying to help Jerry for two days, an eternity in Meeseeks time, and nothing's worked. I fear the worst.
Meeseeks: Your failures are your own, old man. I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Look at me. I say follow-through! Who's with me?! Follow-through!
New Meeseeks: I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Look at me!
Meeseeks: Kill him!
New Meeseeks: Hisssss!
Mr. Jelly Bean: How are you today? I'm Mr. Jelly Bean!
Morty: Hi, Mr. Jelly Bean. I'm Morty. My grandpa and I are on an adventure.
Mr. Jelly Bean: Nice. Is it a fun adventure?
Morty: I hope so. But I'm starting to get nervous that maybe it's gone a little too far off the rails.
Mr. Jelly Bean: Well, isn't that what adventures do?
Morty: Hey, you know what? You're right. Everything's going fine. I just got to relax and go with the flow.
Mr. Jelly Bean: Yeah.
Morty: Okay. Uh. B-bye.
Mr. Jelly Bean: Uhh, no, stay. Go with the flow!
Morty: Stop. You're making me really uncomfortable.
Mr. Jelly Bean : Stop fighting me! Just let this happen!
Morty: Get off of me!
Rick: ♪ Sweet home Alabama. Wooooo! ♪
Morty: Whoo! No! Stop! Please!
Mr. Jelly Bean: Stop being such a fucking tease, you sweet little twat!
Morty: No! No!
Meeseeks: Everybody sto-o-o-p! Look at me! My brothers, nothing will be accomplished by shedding Meeseeks blood. None of us can die until our job is done.
Meeseeks *: The job can't be done! We'll never get two strokes off his game!
Meeseeks: No, we won't. But we will get all strokes off his game.
All other Meeseeks: Where's he going with this? What does he mean?
Meeseeks: When we kill him!
Beth: Jerry, maybe it's time I take that trip I always talk about.
Jerry: Where would you go?
Beth: I don't know, man. Italy. Greece. Argentina.
Jerry: Countries known for their sexually aggressive men. Did I tell you how much I love your new haircut?
Jerry: What the heck?
Meeseeks: There he is!
Beth: Run, Jerry!
Meeseeks: Come on out, Jerry!
Jerry: Guys, I'll choke up. I'll follow through. I'll do whatever you tell me to do, okay?
Meeseeks: Oh, we're well past that, Jerry.
Card Player: Come on, Rick, quit stalling. What do ya got?
Rick: Read 'em and weep, fellas!  Oh, hey, Morty. Listen, I'm really sorry about all that stuff I said earlier about your adventure. I'm havin' a good time, Morty. It's not so bad.
Morty : Let's just go home, okay? I'm calling it. The adventure's over.
Rick: We can't leave now, Morty. I'm on fire!
Morty: Look, I want to leave now. You win the bet, okay?  Just give me the portal gun and let's go, please!
Morty: Please, I just want to... go h-home.
Rick: Okay. Listen, Morty. I just won a bunch of shmeckels. Why don't we use 25 of them to pay slippery stair here for a ride back to the village, and then we'll give the rest of the shmeckels to the villagers, huh?
Morty: Really?
Rick: Sure, Morty. Yeah. You know, a good adventure needs a good ending.
Slippery: Buckle up!
Meeseeks : Meeseeks are not born into this world fumbling for meaning, Jerry! We are created to serve a singular purpose for which we will go to any lengths to fulfill! Existence is pain to a Meeseeks, Jerry. And we will do anything to alleviate that pain. Just ask...  ...what's your name, ma'am?
Woman: Samantha. Please, mister! Give him what he wants!
Jerry: Innocent people are going to die because of me. Why am I so mediocre?
Beth: Jerry, turn around. Straighten your back. Bend your knees. Bend them. Square your shoulders. Take a deep breath. I love you.
Meeseeks : I'm counting to three, Jerry.
All Meeseeks: Ooooohhh!
Samantha: What the fuck is going on?
All Meeseeks: He's got it! That's a lower handicap stro-o-ke!
Meeseeks: Excuse me. I'm a bit of a stickler Meeseeks. What about your short game?
Samantha : Oh, my God, oh, my God! What about your short game?!
Meeseeks: Ooh, nice!
Jerry : I think we'll take our food to go.
Owner: No, you won't. The police are coming. You have so many questions to answer.
Jerry: Fair enough.
The First Villager: Thank you, kind sir. Our village is saved! You are both true heroes!
Rick: Good job, Morty. Looks like you won the bet.
Morty: Thanks, Rick, but I don't know if I should. You know, you were right about the universe. It's a crazy and chaotic place.
Rick: Well, you know, maybe that's why it could use a little cleaning up every now and then, you know. This one's wrapped up neat and clean because we did it Morty style.
The First Villager: Oh! Heroes, we would like to introduce you to our beloved king so that he may thank you personally.
Morty: Uh, no, I-it's cool. Rick. Portal. Hurry.
Jerry: So... You still thinking about taking that trip?
Beth: Jerry, look. We don't have a perfect marriage, but I'm not going anywhere. When we were in that freezer, I realized the Meeseeks are like the guys I went to high school with willing to say anything to "complete their task."
Jerry: Was I one of those guys?
Beth: The difference is you didn't disappear afterwards.
Jerry: Well... I got you pregnant.
Beth: Yeah...
Rick: What the hell happened to this place?
Beth: Uh, your Meeseeks box happened. They went crazy when they couldn't take two strokes off Jerry's golf game. He felt terrible.
Rick: Hey, it's not my fault that Jerry's an idiot.
Beth: Dad! Is there anything you can do to clean this place up?
Rick: Well, you know, I do have a Fleeseeks box.
Jerry: No. No more boxes.
Rick: What? It just has a mop and some floor wax in it. Wubba lubba dub dub!  Yeah! That's my new thing! I'm kind of like what's his name Arsenio. Isn't that it's what Arsenio used to say on his show. Wobble gobba lop bops! Right? See you next week, everybody.
Beth: I don't get it.
Villager 1: Sir, I think you're going to want to see this. We found it inside a lockbox inside king Jelly Bean's closet.  We have to tell the people.
Villager 2: Wait. Destroy it.  Our people will get more from the idea he represented... than from the jelly bean he actually was.
Morty: Hey Rick, I have to make a project for the science fair this weekend. You think you could help me out?
Rick: Whatever.
Jerry: Well, um, traditionally science fairs are a father-son thing.
Rick: Well, scientifically, traditions are an idiot thing.
Beth:  Morty, I think it will be fun for you to work on a science project with your dad.
Morty:  Yeah, dad, why don’t we do it together?
Jerry: Yes! You backed the right horse on this one, son! We’ll get out the crayons, brew some coffee and knock this thing out in two or three days.
Butter robot: What is my purpose?
Rick: Pass the butter.
Rick: Thank you.
Morty:
Summer: Dad, I need a ride to work.
Jerry: Maybe Rick can give you a ride. I’m helping Morty with science.
Rick: I’m busy.
Summer: Doing what?
Rick: Uh, anything else?
Butter robot: What is my purpose?
Rick: You pass butter.
Butter robot:  Oh my god.
Rick: Yeah, welcome to the club, pal.
Rick: Since when did you have a job?
Summer: Since last week. It’s part time at this little vintage thrift store. My boss is this really smart eccentric old man that treats me nice and values me.
Rick: Wee-ow, can’t wait to meet this fascinating character.
Summer: Please don’t.
Goldenfold: Oh… when did this stop being jamba juice?
Needful: I’ve just recently opened for business, Mr, um, Goldenfold.
Goldenfold: You know my name? That’s disarming.
Needful: I also know you long for female company.
Goldenfold: You know, it has been lonely since the divorce. Some voids can’t be filled with jamba juice.
Needful: This aftershave makes a man quite irresistible to women. Free of charge: one never pays here. Not with money.
Goldenfold: Nothing to read into there! Thanks!
Summer: Sorry I’m late, Mr. Needful. This is my grandpa Rick, he was just leaving.
Rick:  Huh.
Needful: Tell me Rick, what do you desire?
Rick: Eh, I make my own stuff. So what are you, like, the devil?
Needful: What? Sorry?
Rick: I dunno, store comes out of nowhere, all the shit’s old and creepy; are you the devil? A demon? Leprechaun?
Summer: Grandpa Rick!
Rick: Hey, I’m not judging. I just like to shoot straight. I’m a man of science.
Needful: Ahah. Then perhaps you could make use of this.  This microscope reveals things beyond comprehension. Hahahaha.
Rick: Hahahahaha.
Summer: Grandpa, go home and drink!
Jerry: Why don’t we do a model of the solar system? That’s what my dad did with me when I was your age.
Morty: Oh. Ok.
Jerry: You know, Rick’s in his lab making cyborgs and wormholes and all that weird stuff, but this is real science! A man and his boy, making planets! Hey, how ‘bout we use a ping-pong ball for Pluto, and then Jupiter-
Morty: Uh, actually, I don’t think Pluto’s a planet.
Jerry:  Of course Pluto’s a planet, son, I learned that in the third grade.
Morty: Well, yeah, but, you know, they changed it.
Jerry: Morty, nobody changed the planets.
Morty: I just googled it. Uh, Pluto’s not a planet. They changed it in 2006.
Jerry: Yeah, I heard about that, Morty. And I disagree.
Morty: You… disagree?
Jerry: That’s right. It’s possible to disagree in science, Morty. Pluto was a planet, some committee of fancy assholes disagree, I disagreed back. Gimmie a ping-pong ball.
Morty: Um, ok, I just have to-
Jerry: Go find Rick and go for my head about Pluto?
Morty: Gee-no! Geez! I just gotta go to the bathroom! Damn!
Jerry: Oh.  Okay good. This is gonna be fun!
Rick: Hey, Morty, lemme ask you a question real quick. Does evil exist, and if so, can one detect and measure it?
Morty: Um…
Rick: Rhetorical question Morty. The answer is yes, you just have to be a genius.
Rick: Your sister’s boss gave me a microscope that would have made me retarded.
Morty: Ooh, oh boy Rick, I don’t think you’re allowed to say that word, you know?
Rick: Uh, Morty, I’m not disparaging the differently abled. I’m stating the fact that if I had used this microscope, it would have made me mentally retarded.
Morty: Okay, yeah, but I don’t think it’s about logic, Rick. I think the word’s just become a symbolic issue for powerful groups that feel like they’re doing the right thing.
Rick: Well that’s retarded.
Jerry: What are you guys talking about?
Rick: Apparently nothing.
Jerry: You asked him if Pluto’s a planet, didn’t you?
Morty: No!
Rick: It’s not.
Jerry: Shut up, Rick.
Rick: Whoa.
Jerry: I don’t care what anyone says. If it can be a planet, it can be a planet again. Planet. Planet, planet, planet.
Rick: Stay scientific, Jerry.
Goldenfold: This aftershave made women want me but it also made me impotent!
Needful: A price for everything, Mr. Goldenfold. A price… for everything! Muahahahaha!
Goldenfold:  Oh my god! How can I not see this coming? My lust! My greed! I deserve thi-
Rick: This serum should counteract the negative effects.
Goldenfold:  Holy cats! Ladies, let’s get out of here.
Goldenfold : I haven’t learned a thing!
Rick:  Here. You can have this back.
Needful: You didn’t use it?
Rick: Sure I did. To develop this. It detects and catalogues all your Twilight Zone Ray Bradbury Friday the 13th of series voodoo crap magic. I thought you might want it so you didn’t accidentally sell anybody, say,  a typewriter that generates best-selling murder mysteries, then makes the murders happen in real life? Oooh.
Needful: Be quiet!
Rick: Don’t you want to make sure people know what they’re getting? You’re not intentionally selling  beauty cream that makes ugly ladies pretty but also makes them blind?
Needful: I find this all quite preposterous!
Rick: Oh, I say, good sir! Oh, harrumph, oh, oh, bobba-doppa-doopa-bo-bo.  That’s beautiful, you know it’s going to be wearing you in three hours?
Needful: Do I need to call the police?
Rick: Here, you can use my phone. Don’t worry, it won’t make you deaf because I’m not a hack.
Summer: Hey! No! Ugh!
Rick: Think you’re so great?
Summer: Stop it!
Summer: No! Stop! Hey, hey! Stop it right now!
Summer: Grandpa Rick, I like working here!
Rick: You work for the devil!
Summer: So what?
Rick and Needful: "So what"?!
Summer: Yes, so what if he’s the devil, Rick? At least the devil has a job. At least he’s active in the community. What do you do? You eat our food, and make gadgets. Buh bye.
Rick: Whoops.
Summer: I’m sorry Mr. Needful, I’ll clean that up. I don’t know what I can do about the ghost lady that came out of it, but…
Needful: It’s fine. Summer, you know your grandfather’s right. This store curses people. That’s my business.
Summer: Well, yeah, fast food gives people diabetes and clothing stores have sweatshops. Is there a company hiring teenagers that isn’t evil? This is my first job. You’ve been nice to me, Mr. Needful. You respect me.
Needful: Please, call me the devil.
Summer: I’d rather not, actually.
Needful: Yes, perhaps not during business hours.
Jerry: I told you, I want to file a declaration that Pluto is a planet! … Well, then my son’s going to fail his science class, and when that happens, I’m suing you first!  I think I know what the A in NASA stands for.
Morty: Dad, what’s your endgame?
Jerry: Ain’t no game, sucka.
Morty: Why don’t we just make the solar system with eight planets? It’s even easier!
Jerry: Sure, sure, and why don’t we just burn Galileo at the stake for saying the sun is round? Science isn’t always easy, Morty!
Jerry and Morty: Whoa, whoa! Whoa!
Jerry: What the hell?
Flippynips: I’m King Flippynips, ruler of Pluto!
Flippynips: We discovered you quite by accident during routine surveillance of your world. You really gave it to those guys at NASA!
Jerry: I was… you know… sometimes science is about conviction.
Flippynips: I’d like to introduce you to a few people that very much agree with you.
Jerry: Oh. I…
Flippynips: Plutonians! Jerry Smith is a scientist from Earth where he’s creating a model of our solar system! Jerry, tell Pluto about your decision!
Jerry: Pluto… is a planet.
Flippynips: Pluto’s a fucking planet, bitch!
Morty:  Oh man, this is definitely gonna go to his head.
Needful: If it’s athletic prowess you desire, principal Vagina, I might-
Vagina:  I’ll take it!
Needful: But I haven’t even-
Vagina: Thank you very very much, great store, great place, bye.
Needful: Huh. Okay. I must say, Summer, I thought your grandfather’s outburst would have disrupted business, but this is the best weekend I’ve had since Salem!
Summer: Nice! Wholesome delight for lunch?
Needful: Is that the vegan place?
Summer: Yeah, I love their soup.
Needful: I’m kind of souped out.
Needful: Mrs. Tate, is it? What do you desire?
Needful: Whoa, whoa, slow down, honey!
Tate: Oh, is there a limit? Everything’s free, right?
Summer: Let’s just say… you don’t pay with money.
Needful:  That was perfect.
Tate: You pay with the curses, right?
Needful: Um, I… well-
Needful: But Mrs. Tate! Why do you want cursed items?
Tate: Well, I’m going to get the curses removed. At curse purge plus. You know, the guy on TV?
Needful: What?
Rick: Have you acquired creepy, specific old stuff from an antique or thrift store that gives you powers but fucks with you in unforeseeable ways? Bring it to Curse Purge Plus! I use science to uncurse the items for cash, and you get to keep the powers! This guy got mysterious sneakers to make him run faster! But guess what? He would have had to run until he died, making them worthless. I removed the curse, making them worth, like, I dunno, $8,000,000? See ya at the Olympics. This eerily intelligent doll was threatening to murder its family. Now it does their taxes.
Baby : Everything’s deductible.
Rick: Don’t pay for cool stuff with your soul. Pay for it with money. You know, like how every other store in the world works? We’re located at First and Main in old town. Come on, come on down.
Needful: First… and…
Rick: Wubba… lubba… dub dub!
Rick: Wubba lubba dub dub!
Rick: That’s right across the street from Needful Things, where you can get evil items for free!
Needful: Diabolical son of a mother-
Hostess: We’re back on Good Morning Pluto, and a very good morning it is for our guest, Earth scientist Jerry Smith, who is making headlines with his bold announcement that is, what Jerry?
Jerry: Pluto is a planet.
Host:  How about that?
Hostess: Wow. I love it!
Scroopy Noopers: Morty Smith. I’m Scroopy Noopers. I’m a scientist. Can I show you something?
Morty: Uh… I’d better not.
Scroopy Noopers:  Right now.
Scroopy Noopers: The centre of Pluto, Mr. Smith, is made up of a substance called plutonium. Mines like these suck Plutonium up to the cities, where corporations use it to power everything, from diamond cars to golden showers. And the more we remove, the more Pluto shrinks.
Scroopy Noopers: There it goes again. Just shrank a little. But a few years ago, your scientists had noticed Pluto had gotten so small they couldn’t even call it a planet any more. Should have been our wake up call. But the rich plutonians won’t wake up. And they love your dad telling everyone Pluto’s a planet, because that means they can keep mining until Pluto goes from planet to asteroid to meteor, and finally, poof.
Morty: Um… A party?
Scroopy Noopers: Is everyone in your family an idiot?
Morty: For sure me and my dad are.
Scroopy Noopers:  Well, all you have to do is get him to admit that, and you could save four billion lives.
Morty: Uh, yeah, you know, the thing is… my dad’s really insecure.
Summer: Hm, funny. Mr Needful, out of everything in the store you’ll never guess what we couldn’t get rid of!
Summer: Ah! Oh my god!
Summer: Oh my god.  I wish this desk was lighter!
Summer:  I wish this knot was looser!
Summer: Come on! I don’t… Augh! Wait! What am I doing?  I wish I knew CPR!
Summer: One, two, three! One, two, three!
Needful:  Ugh, Jesus. What a waste of a monkey paw.
Summer: Mr. Needful! How could you even think of doing something so horrible?
Needful: I’m the devil. What should I do when I fail, give myself an ice-cream?
Summer: You haven’t failed.
Needful: People like Rick are making me obsolete. I mean seriously, I may be the devil but your grandpa is the devil! I just want to go back to hell where everybody thinks I’m smart and funny.
Summer: No! It’s not fair. Everyone in this town got something they wanted from you, even Rick! I was your only friend, and I get nothing?
Needful: Okay, I’ll give you one thing. Name it.
Summer: I wanna help you.
Needful: Clever twist.
Summer: I learned from the best, you old fart. Now let’s go get you hydrated.
Rick: Looks like we’ve got… haunted boxing gloves that will make you the heavyweight champion, in 1936 and then you’ll be trapped there winning the same fight for eternity. I can take out the eternity, and the padding, and then you’ll have some time travelling mittens.
Rick: Oh, look, it’s Rosemary’s baby! How’s business?
Summer: Here’s the last of our inventory. We’re going to file chapter 11 and do some restructuring.
Rick: Sounds like code for ‘You win, Rick!’
Summer: That was important to you, wasn’t it?
Rick: Nope, it was important to your dumb devil friend. To me this was all just a bit like when Bugs Bunny fucks with the opera singer for twenty minutes.
Summer: He tried to kill himself.
Rick: Seriously? Holy crap. Holy crap.
Summer: But you know what, grandpa Rick? He’s strong. And he’s never going to give up.
Rick: Uh huh, yeah, I don’t care.
Summer: Oh, I know. Everyone knows you don’t care.
Rick: So?
Summer: So… have fun not caring.
Rick: I always do.
Summer: Good.
Rick: Yeah, it is good. It’s the best.
Summer: I’m sure it is. Bye.
Rick: Later!
Customer: I’m here to pick up my undead cat and child.
Rick: Yeah, uh, gimmie a sec.
Employee: These are the forms for the employee health plan.
Rick: Alright, yeah, uh, put ‘em on my… eh.
Rick: I just got bored. Everybody out.
Jerry: Alright, just one more rally, then I promise, we’ll get back to your science project.
Morty: Dad, Pluto isn’t a planet! It’s shrinking because of corporations!
Jerry: Yeah, that’s what that anti-planet nutjob Scroopy Noopers was screaming about outside the Ministry of Moneys fundraiser. Are you telling me four billion plutonians are wrong?
Morty: You told me science wasn’t easy!
Jerry: I said science isn’t always easy, obviously that means sometimes it is easy. Let’s not debase ourselves with word games, son.
Morty: Dad, their whole planet is dying!
Jerry: Hah! You called it a planet! Checkmate.
Jerry: What’s up, Pluto?
Plutonian woman: Mr. Smith, please! Tell my friend here what you just told me, go on.
Jerry: My Very Eager Mother Just Served Us Nine Pickles, and the pickles is Pluto.
Plutonian man: My god! The man’s a genius!
Morty: Um, excuse me?
Jerry: Morty, what?
Morty: Dad, what did you think about the recent report published by the Pluto Science Reader, linking plutoquakes, sinkholes and surface shrinkage to deep core plutonium drilling?
Jerry: ...Well son, what did you think when you were five, and you pooped your pants, and you threw your poopy undies out your bedroom window because you thought it was like throwing something in the garbage?
Plutonians:
Jerry: I mean, I’m trimming the hedges and these things are just hanging there, was I supposed to think the poop bunny left them?
Morty: Good one, dad.
Rick:  Hey Morty, you wanna go on a- oh.  Hey Beth? Hello?  Hey Jerry, you in here being stupid?
Rick: Thanks. Hey, y’know, I was thinking I might watch a movie…
Butter robot: I am not programmed for friendship.
Rick: Suit yourself.
Rick: Hey!  Hey. What’s going on?
Morty: Um… listen, can you help me do this stupid science fair project?
Rick: Whatever.
Flippynips: Jerry, you must be so excited! The Plutobell Prize is the highest honour a scientist can receive!
Jerry: I’m flattered, and humbled.
Flippynips: Ooh, I like that. Use that in your speech. Also, talk about Pluto being a planet, people like that.
Policeman: Your highness! We’ve captured Scroopy Noopers!
Scroopy Noopers: You animals! Animals!
Flippynips: Ooh, look whose little journey’s come to an end! Take him to Plutonimo Bay!
Scroopy Noopers: You can’t kill the truth, father!
Jerry: What?
Flippynips: I can see you’re confused. Plutonimo bay is a military prison, a sort of play on words-
Jerry: Did he call you father? Scroopy Noopers, the anti-planet nutjob is your son?
Flippynips: The young eat the old if you let them, Jerry. Pluto is a cold, cold celestial dwarf.
Jerry: It’s a what?
Flippynips: Huh? Oh- planet! Hah! Hoh, Pluto is a cold cold planet! That’s what I meant. Knock ‘em dead out there, you.
Jerry: Pluto is…
Jerry:  Not a planet.
Crowd: Boo!
Jerry: Ow! It’s not a planet! Hey! It’s not a planet! I’m an idiot, and I love my son!
Needful: It’s been a long six hours, but we’ve overhauled Needful Things into the globally compliant, web 4.0 e-nomenon, n33dful.com! Spelled with 3s instead of Es.
Crowd: Woot! Yeah! Woot! Excited!
Needful: Okay, that’s it! We just got bought by Google!
Crowd: Yeah!
Summer: Mmh! I’m so proud of you, Lucius. So… how much did we make?
Needful: Haha. ‘We.’  This is my business! Security!
Summer: Ah! You’re Zuckerberging me?
Needful: I was Zuckerberging people before Zuckerberg’s balls dropped. I’m the devil, beeyotch! What what!
Jerry: Hey!
Jerry: Hey Morty.
Morty: Oh! Hey dad!  Um… What are you doing back from Pluto so quick?
Jerry: Ah, some people just can’t handle the truth. Especially dummies like me. Morty, I’m not as smart as your grandpa Rick, but I promise never to make that your problem again.
Morty: Hey, dad? Nobody’s smarter than Rick. But nobody else is my dad. You’re a genius at that.
Jerry: Wow… that’s humbling… and flattering, son. Thank you. What say we finish ourselves an 8-planet solar system?
Morty: Um… I’m just going to take this thing in and… get an A.
Butter robot: Butter.
Jerry: But-
Morty: You’re a genius at being my dad, dad. Quit while you’re ahead. And also, knock next time, you know? I mean, I’m sitting in here, I’m 14! I got a computer in here, you know!
Jerry: Oh. I uh- I think I underst-
Morty: You know you’re really playing with fire when you burst in here like that, man.
Jerry: I get it! Say no more.
Morty: I mean, one of these days, you know, you’re gonna, you’re gonna end up seeing something-
Jerry: I got it! Noted! Goodnight!
Rick: How’s your pretend grandpa doing AKA the devil?
Summer: He dumped me.
Rick: Oof, sorry.
Summer: Did we learn a lesson here I’m not seeing?
Rick: Hm, not sure.
Summer: Maybe in a much bigger way, Mr. Needful gave us both what we really wanted? Because I was always jealous of you hanging out with Morty and you didn’t realise how much you valued my approval?
Rick: No, that’s dumb.
Summer: Nah, not satisfying.
Rick: I’ll tell you what though, if it’s satisfaction you’re after, I think I might have an idea.
Summer:  Uh huh… uh huh… uh huh totally let’s do it!
Needful: And that’s how I took my storefront into the forefront of the upfront! Thank you Seattle!
Needful: Rick? Summer?
Rick: Stupid mother-
Summer: Stupid bitch!
Rick: Stupid motherfucker!
Summer: Get some!
Rick: How do you like that! Augh! How do you like that?
Needful: Ugh… Why?
Summer:  Because sometimes what you really need is for someone else to pay a horrible price.
Rick: We did it!
Summer: Haha, yeah bro. Yeah! Haha!
Rick: Was totally worth it! We did it, hahaha! We just pulled it off!
Summer: Yeah bro!
Rick: Hahaha!
Summer: Yeah.
This article is a transcript of the Rick and Morty episode A Rickle in Time from Season 2. It aired on July 26, 2015.
Summer: Hurry up Morty, Grampa's about to unfreeze time. You know you really should be cleaning from top to bottom.
Morty: I know how to vacuum Mom and Dad, Summer, I've been doing it for six months!
Summer: Then you've been doing it wrong for six months. Oh, my God, is that mildew?
Morty: It's not my fault we froze time on a humid day!
Summer: You have dropped so many balls, man. Do you ever get scared Grampa Rick might make me his new sidekick?
Morty: What? What kind of monster are you?
Summer: A competent one.
Rick: Who cares about the *belch* thing you guys are talking about? The whole point of freezing time is to stop giving a fuck. Put a shirt on your dumb dad and let's get this dumb universe rolling. Let's do this thing.
Rick: Alright, listen, you two, we froze time for a pretty long time, so when I unfreeze it, the world's time is gonna be fine, but our time's gonna need a little time to, you know, stabilize.
Morty: Our time is gonna be unstable? What does that even mean?
Rick: It means relax and stop being a pussy, Morty. I thought you learned that by now. It also means don't touch your parents or we could shatter into countless theoretical shards.
Morty: Wait a minute, what?
Rick: And away we go!
Morty: Uh, did we ever put that mattress under Mr. Benson?
Rick: Shhh, Morty!
Jerry: ...A THING OR TWO ABOUT... wait, what? Was the house...? When we pulled up I could have sworn the house was completely trashed.
Rick: Negative visualization, Jerry. It explains a lot about where you're at. Hi, sweety.
Beth: Hi, dad.
Beth: Summer, Morty, are you okay?
Morty: W-We just missed you a lot.
Summer: Yeah, we missed you so much. Too much to hug you though.
Rick: Yeah it would literally destroy them. Now listen, why do—why do—why—why don't you guys go get a free Sundae ice cream,  go out there and get some ice creams. Here's five hundred dollars cash in unmarked moneys. I'm just gonna put it on the floor and uh, kick it on over to ya. You guys go nuts.
Jerry: This better not be a bribe. If I find a single thing out of place in this house, my love of ice cream won't save you. I'll get my jacket.
Beth: Sweety, is your shirt on backwards?
<Simultaneously---
Summer: *Gasp*
Morty: Oh!
Rick: Uh oh.
-------------->
Jerry: Yeah, I like it this way. I'm not stupid.
<Simultaneously---
Morty: Phew...
Summer: *Exhales*
-------------->
Rick: Man that guy is the Red Grin Grumble to pretending he knows what's going on.  Oh you agree, huh?  You like that Red Grin Grumble reference?  Well guess what? I made him up. You really are your father's children. Think for yourselves, don't be sheep.
Summer: God, I feel terrible.
Rick: Yup, it really makes you appreciate how fickle the universe can be.   One minute you're falling off a roof for six months, the next minute, bam!
Morty: Uh, just to be clear, it was Summer's job to put the mattress under-
Summer:  Uh, what? It was your job, Morty.
Morty: Nuh uh!
Summer: Yeah huh!
Rick: Actually, sorry Summer, I gotta back the M bomb on this one. I remember the conversation. We told Morty to replace all the bank's money with cookies, your job was to put the mattress under Mr. Benson.
Morty: Boom! In your face Summer! You really dropped the ball, man.
Summer: Shut up Morty, you vindictive little turd!
Morty: You shut up you big... female asshole!
Alternate Morty: Hey, don't shove me!
Summer: I didn't!
Morty: You didn't what?
Alternate Summer: What's your problem?
Morty: What's yours?
Alternate Summer: Shut up!
Morty: You shut up!
Rick: Whoa whoa wh-what the hell hell hell hell hell?
Both Ricks: Oh God, oh no, what did you guys just do?
Summer 1: What do you mean?
Summer 2: What could we do?
BothAll Summers: Wait, what am I saying?
Both Rick: *belch* Were either of you guys uncertain about anything just now?
BothAll Mortys: Oh man... I don't feel good.
Morty 1: Am I me? I think so.
Morty 2: A-am I talking right now?
BothAll Mortys: Wait, who said that?
BothAll Ricks: Alright both of you, just don't move, don't speak, don't think. I have to check something.
Summer 1: What should we do Morty?
Summer 2: I'm gonna help Grampa.
Morty 1: Let's see if he needs help.
Morty 2: What do you mean you're gonna help him.
Summer 1: Ugh, I can help too.
BothAll Mortys: What's going on Rick?
BothAll Summers: What's happening Grampa?
BothAll Ricks: Shut up!  Oh crap are you kidding me? Two dots? This never needs to be more than one dot. The two of you made us uncertain!
Morty 1: What do you mean?
Morty 2: What? In English?
Summer 1: What? English please?
Summer 2: What are you talking about?
BothAll Ricks: Our time is fractured. You two somehow created a feedback loop of uncertainty that's split our reality into two equally possible impossibilities. W-we're exactly like a man capable of sustaining a platonic friendship with an attractive female co-worker. We're entirely hypothetical.
BothAll Mortys: But I thought there were infinite timelines.
BothAll Ricks: We're not on any timeline, dummy. Look.
BothAll Mortys: Oh, my God!
BothAll Summers: Are those cats?
Both Ricks: I assume they're Schrödinger's cats. A-actually, I assume they both are and aren't, just like us.
Summer 1 & Morty 2: Is the world gone? Where are Mom and Dad?
Both Ricks: “Mom and Dad?” Get your head out of your family's ass. The three of us are lost in a timeless oblivion. Your parents get to exist. They're probably living it up in some pointless grounded story about their shitty marriage.
Jerry: Cold Stone Creamery is the best. What should we do with our remaining twenty dollars?
Beth: You realize they sing no matter how much you tip.
Beth: Holy shit! What happened?
Jerry: I hit a deer! W-we have to tell the cops you were driving.
Beth: W-what?
Jerry: This is Rum Raisin!
Beth: It's still alive.
Jerry: Well, do we- do I uh, get a big rock? Or--
Beth: It's not an armadillo, asshole!
Jerry: I thought that's what a man's supposed to say, it's not like I could have actually done it.
Beth: If we were near a hospital, I could treat it, but I-I think we have to just-
Jerry: It's okay, this is just something that happens. And even if we were in a hospital, what could we do, you're a horse surgeon, not a deer surgeon.
Beth: So...
Jerry: Well don't different animals-
Beth: Require different levels of skill to keep alive?
Jerry: Oh God...
Beth: Get the deer in the car, Jerry.
Jerry: Yes Beth.
Both Ricks: This is why you don't freeze time, you guys. It's incredibly irresponsible.
Morty 1: And you did it so you could clean the house after a party.
Morty 2: And you did it so you could clean the house after a party?
Both Ricks: Look, there's no time to hold me accountable, Morty. Like literally no time. Look around. Uncertainty is inherently unsustainable. Eventually everything either is or isn't. And we've got about four hours to be “is”.
Morty 1: Or...
Morty 2: Or?
Both Ricks: We “isn't”.
Both Ricks: Alright, since this time crystal exists in both possibilities, and since it's impossible that I didn't nail this, I'm probably about to press this button in both possibilities at exactly the same time.
Morty 1 & Summer 2: How do you know you're gonna-
Both Ricks: Whatever you're asking, the answer is I'm amazing. And away we go!
Both Ricks: Huh, what do you know, it's working.
Summer 1: Ow, ow ouch!
Morty 2: Whoa, ow, ow.
Both Ricks: Oh shit.
All Ricks: What the hell is wrong with you two!? I—I m—I m—I mean you four!?
All Mortys and Summer 2: That hurt! That was painful...
All Ricks: Good I'm glad it was painful. You do deserve it! I saw you, you're both *belch* all over the damn place. We've been split for twenty minutes and your lives are already scattered to the quantum fucking wind? What the hell do either of you have to be so uncertain about? Your brand of zit cream? Which chair to sit in while I do everything? Come on, spit it out!
All Mortys: Well you don't exactly make it easy, Rick!
Morty 1: You make fun of me all the time and now Summer's doing it too!
Morty 2: You're always picking on me and now you got someone to kiss your ass!
Summer 1: Me? What about you? Would you get more excited to see me fail? You want Grampa all to yourself!
Summer 2: Me? You're just as mean to me because you're jealous, because you want Grampa all to yourself!
All Ricks: Alright, cool it, I see what's happening here. You're both young, you're both unsure about your place in the universe, you both wanna be “Grampa's favorite.” I can fix this. Morty sit here, Summer, you sit here. Now listen, I know the two of you are very different from each other in a lot of ways, but you have to understand that as far as Grampa's concerned, you're both pieces of shit. Yeah, I can prove it mathematically. Actually, let me grab my whiteboard. This has been a long time coming anyway.
Beth: Emergency, wounded deer coming in.
Vet: Three. Excuse me, you can't be back here.
Beth: I'm a certified horse surgeon, and this deer needs medical attention. Nurse, please move that snake.
Vet: That's my nurse, and as a horse surgeon, I'm sure that you know that deer have much smaller, much more intricate organs-
Beth: As a vet, I'm sure you know a deer is closer to a horse than you are to a doctor, so let's save the measuring for when our dicks are out, it's time to save a life!
Vet: Geez...
Beth: That's odd, this deer's wounded.
Jerry: Uh, yeah, I was there, you don't have to rub it in.
Beth: I mean it's been shot. With a gun.
Hunter: My gun.
Vet: May I help you, sir?
Hunter: No, but you can stop helping this deer. I shot it before these two hit it with their car and I followed them when they hauled it off. This deer belongs to me.
Beth:
sigh* We don't have time for this, okay! I need anesthetic, and deer saline!
Vet: Look, I don't know what the law says about this, but I took an oath that I would let no animal come to harm. Except when sterilizing, aborting or euthenizing them and also when eating them at almost any meal.
Hunter: I'm calling my lawyer. I hope for all our sakes you're as bad a surgeon as I am a hunter.
Beth: In your dreams, bitch! Scalpel!
All Ricks: So in conclusion, you're both equally mercurial, overly sensitive, clingy hysterical bird brained homunculi. And I honestly can't tell the two of you half the time because I don't go by height or age, I go by amount of pain in my ass, which makes you both identical. Alright, everything resolved? Everybody nice and certain about their position in my world?
All Mortys and All Summers: Yes.
All Ricks: Alright, perfect. Sit still, *belch* arms down, I'm gonna do this again, this time, be like Grampa.
Morty 2: You mean drunk?
Rick: What's that? You got something to say?
Rick: And away we go!
Morty 2: No.
Rick: And away we go!
All Ricks: Huh, that's weird. Oh, my God.
All Summers: What?
All Ricks: That son of a bitch is gonna kill me!
Rick: Follicle unfeeling sociopath. Don't you get it? He thinks he can save his own skin by using the crystal to kill me. He probably figures it's easier to eliminate one of the possibilities rather than merge them. I have to admit, it's always in the back of my mind too. The difference is I would never do it! Until now...
Rick: Don't you get it? don't you get it? The other Rick isn't trying to merge us anymore. He thinks he can save his own skin by using the crystal to kill me. He probably figures it's easier to eliminate one of the possibilities rather than merge them. I have to admit, it's always in the back of my mind too. The difference is I would never do it! Until now...
All Mortys: Rick what the hell are you doing?
All Ricks: Saving our lives. After he takes me out he's gonna be coming for you!
All Summers: Who?
All Ricks: Me!
Rick: You see that? Get down.
All Summers: Ahh!
All Mortys: Whoa whoa!
Rick: I told you he's a psycho!
Rick: He's lost it. The time fracture must have made him crazy!
Rick: I don't know what to do! I don't know what to do!
Summer 2 or 4 after splitting into 4 : Oh crap!
All Ricks: Oh God, now there's three of them, we're outnumbered! Get in the cupboards! Wait, don't don't do that, they'll know... wait wait, think about getting in the cupboards but don't really. AAAAH! IS THIS WHAT YOU WANT YOU SICK FUCKS? YOU WANNA SEE CHILDREN DIE?
Beth: You son of a bitch, you don't stop living until I SAY SO!
Lawyer: Michael.
Vet: Who's this now?
Hunter: My lawyer.
Lawyer: I'm here to notify you ma'am, that in this county, any deer shot by a hunter is that hunter's property, regardless of how far it runs, or who intercepts it before it dies. It's called Brad's law. We can't make you stop the surgery, but at this point you're performing it on venison.
Hunter: Actually, I've decided not to eat it. All this fear and conflict. I'm sure it's ruined the meat. I'm just gonna use the head for my rec room wall.
Jerry: She normally works on horses.
Beth: Jerry, if you're not gonna help, get the fuck out of here! I will reach into heaven and yank your screaming deer soul back!
Vet: Jesus...
All Ricks: Shh shh... I know where you are, you creepy old monster... I know how you think! Oh, is this where you think I'm going? You think I'm standing here? Well maybe you're right!
All Summers: Holy shit, now what?
All Mortys: Well if all of me knocked out all the Ricks, and you peed in all of your pants, doesn't that mean that we're all synchronized?
All Summers: Right.
All Mortys: Okay... so from now on, whatever we do we have to be certain.
All Summers: Right...
All Mortys: I think I'm certain we're F'd in the A.
All Ricks: Oh God, my head. What did you guys do?
All Mortys: We put you in a dog crate because you were acting crazy, and you caused another time fracture.
All Summers: You tried to kill yourself!
All Ricks: Only in self defense, myself tried to kill me first! Guys, I don't expect you to understand this, but time breaking twice means our problem is two times bigger and we've got half as much time to solve it. Well actually, I do expect you to understand that, it's basic math. C-could someone just let me out of here? If I die in a cage I lose a bet.
All Summers: Well is there some way you can prove you're not a threat to yourself and others anymore?
All Ricks: Ah, for God's sake, alright here, give me the time crystal.
All Mortys: W-what're you doing?
All Ricks: Calling myself. Here, listen, *belch* it'll probably go to voice mail since, you know, I'm calling myself.
All Rick phones: Hello, Rick here.
All Ricks: Don't fall for it, it's a bit.
All Rick phones: Just kidding, haha! You just got Ricked. You've reached Rick's voicemail, you know what to do *beep*.
All Ricks: Hey Rick, it's Rick. Listen, I'm sorry about earlier. No hard feelings. I know you know I mean it too. Take it easy. Whoa. Damn, look at this, I'm blown up. Three new voicemails. *voicemail repeats* Yeah yeah, I heard this one. *voicemail repeats two more times* You get the idea *belch* we're cool now.
All Summers: Okay, well we're still not gonna let you out of this crate.
All Ricks: Fine I'll just do it myself.
All Mortys: If you could get out that whole time why didn't you?
All Ricks: Because I waited until I was certain it was what I wanted to do, Morty. That's the difference between you and me. I'm certain, and you're a walking burlap sack filled with turds.
All Mortys: You know, geez Rick, y—y—you're really tearing into me right now. You know, words hurt.
Morty 1: Oh, my God!
Morty 2: It's a monster!
Morty 3: Oh, my God! It's a monster!
Summer 1: It's a monster!
Summer 4: It's a monster!
Testicle Monster A: Ey, ye ey, quit yellin' quit yellin'.
Summer 1: *Screams*
Summer 4: Oh, my God...
Morty 2, 3 and 4: *Screams*
Testicle Monster A: What the fuck?! Your time is all ripped up to hell! You broke your time, twice!
All Ricks: *sigh*
Testicle Monster A: How did this happen?
Summers 2 & 3: Yeah, but we don't even know, the first time...
Morty 1 & 4: Who's that Brother Newman time elf?
Testicle Monster A: Shut the fuck up! Oh, damn, I'm from the 4th dimension. I can hear all o' y'all. Now let's just see what we got here for a second.
All Ricks: *groan*
Testicle Monster A: Ay, damn it, were you tryin' to use this to- oh, see, you broke time, and you thought you could just stick it back together with this? How you think you gonna move time while you're standin in it you dumn ass three-dimensional monkey ass dummies?
All Mortys: Oh way to go, Rick.
All Summers: Yeah Grampa, way to go.
All Ricks: Oh, what you're just gonna listen to this guy now? He's got a giant testicle for a head! He came here in a bubble. For all we know he could be the David Berkowitz of Nutsack Land.
Testicle Monster A: Shut up. Here, put these on. They'll sync your possibilities up so I can bring you back to certain time. Y'all just-just negligent, now ay, ay, ay, the three of you, put your collars on!
Summer 1, 2 and 3: What are you talking about?
Morty 1, 2 and 3: We have them on.
Rick 1, 2 and 3: Uh, we did...
Rick: We're not wearing collars.
Testicle Monster A: Exactly, because you're being obstinate.
Rick 1, 2 and 3: *belch* What?
Morty 1, 2 and 3: We did!
Summer 1, 2 and 3: They're on right now.
Rick: Alright, fine. Summer, Morty, put 'em on.
Rick: Yes, we're back, problem solved.
Summer: Yes, we're back to our own time.
Morty: Yes no more cats, no more cats, oh you did it, you fixed it.
Testicle Monster A: Yeah, now keep those collars on so you don't break your weak ass time again.
Rick: How long exactly do we have to wear these things? They're really embarrassing.
Testicle Monster A: Well since you're goin' to time prison, I'd say you can keep em on forever.
Summer: Time prison?
Testicle Monster A: Yeah, well I don't know where you expect me to think you got that crystal over there, but the only way you dumb ass, assin' ass asses could ever have one, is if it was stolen.
Summer: You stole a time freezing crystal from testical monsters?
Rick: I would have been happy to pay for it, Summer, but they don't exactly sell them at Costco. Besides, there's a larger lesson to be learned here. Get him!
Testicle Monster A: Ututututut! You'd better keep back! Man this will turn your ass into a third trimester fetus from 30 yards.
Vet: Hmm...
Beth: Isn't there a kitten somewhere that needs a manicure?
Lawyer: That's right Mrs. Smith, *whispers* give in to your anger. Neglect that deer.
Jerry: Honey, it's gonna be okay. These men are from the Cervine Institute of Elk, Moose Deer and Stag. They can take this deer to a helicopter and fly it to the country's top deer surgeon on a wildlife reserve across the state border, where your jurisdiction ends.
Vet: I guess that's the end of that.
Lawyer: There is just one more thing. According to this state's veterinarian statute, this animal can't be transferred until the current attending physician verbally confirms their inability to provide adequate care. You heard the man horse doctor, you have to say you couldn't hack it.
Jerry: We did it...
Testicle Monster A:  Uh-huh, no motha- no, Earth, dude, I'm talking 'bout, yeah, with the dinosaurs. No, if you've get to the dolphin people, you've gone too far. Alright man, I'll talk to you later, okay.  You know what they do with 3rd dimensional life forms in time prison? Same thing they do in every other prison, only forever.
Morty: Why are you doing this?
Testicle Monster A: You think I wanna be an omniscient immortal being transcending time and space my whole life? I got ambitions man, bringin' you guys in is my ticket up.
Rick: What if I told you there's a huge ticket up right behind you?
Testicle Monster A: You really think I'm that stupid?
Rick: Alright, hear me out on this. You're immortal, right, which means your life is infinite. Well in that case there's 100% chance that you'll eventually do everything, including turning around to look behind you.
Testicle Monster A: I cannot argue that.
Rick: Ah, God, gross and weird!
Testicle Monster A: Chris!
Testicle Monster A: You killed my gun!
Rick: Summer, Morty, take off your collars!
Testicle Monster A: What? What the hell are you doing?
Rick: Good question. I suppose the answer is: I'm not certain!
Testicle Monster A: Oh, no, what are you doin'?
Rick: I have no idea!
Rick: I'm not sure.
All Ricks : Maybe I will, maybe I won't.
All Ricks : I'm really uncertain about everything, even kicking your ass!
Testicle Monster A: Lis- ay, to, AH. But these arms are vestigial. Now you poked me where an eye would have been about six million years ago.
All Summers : Come on, let's help Grampa.
All Mortys : Yeah. I'm like a hundred percent not sure about anything.
Summers 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, 12, 17, 18, 20, 25, 28, 29, 31: Beat his ass!
Summers 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 14, 16, 18, 19, 23, 25, 27, 28: Get him!
Summers 2, 6, 9, 12, 13, 15, 17, 20, 21, 22, 24, 26, 29, 30, 31, 32: Beat him up!
Morty 23: Kick his ass, Rick!
Rick 23: Die, motherfucker!
Testicle Monster A: Ow, I'm defeated...
Summer 23: What's happening?
Rick 23: Time is falling apart, we've got to get back to certainty, quick! Give me your collars!
Morty 23: Oh man, don't you have to fix, like, thirty of them?
Rick 23: Morty, I have to fix three of them, and then there's thirty-one other versions of me that have to also fix three for a total of 96. I'm not an idiot. I know how to be decisive, now hand me that  screwdriver. Actually, make it a .
All Ricks : Oh, shit.
Jerry: Look, I know I was kind of a nuisance today. I know it's my fault we hit the deer, and I know you wanted to be the one to save it.
Beth: Whatever. How petty would I have to be to care less about an animal's life than my own ego?
Jerry: Hmm... you'd have to be pretty petty. But you'd still be the woman I married.
Beth: Where are we going?
Jerry: One last stop.
Beth: Where's the helicopter?
Jerry: There is no helicopter and there is no Cervine Institute.
Beth: But the top deer surgeon...
Jerry: I'm looking at her. Thanks for F.D.'ing me up like that.
Cold Stone Employee: You'd better get moving, these lights are designed for basic ice cream work, they're not gonna last all night.
Beth: I need five minutes.
Beth: Jerry, this was the most romantic weekend I've ever had.
Jerry: Thanks to Cold Stone Creamery.
Cold Stone Employee: You're welcome.
All Ricks: Okay, we're out of time. It's ironic, huh?
Morty 30: Rick!
Rick 30: What's goin' on?
Morty 30: The collar, oh, the latch is broken! It won't latch closed around my neck!
All Mortys Except Morty 30: What's wrong, how come our collars aren't green?
All Ricks Except Rick 30: Obviously because someone doesn't know how to put his collar on and one of me is stuck trying to help him.
All Mortys Except Morty 30: Don't blame this on me, you're the one that couldn't fix a latch!
Rick 30: What are you talking about, it's not broken, Morty, I fixed it, just put it on!
Morty 30: It won't close, it's broken!
Rick 30: Fine, bring it here.
Morty 30: Ooh, ooh, Rick!
All Ricks Except Rick 30: Oh, really, Morty? Well I'm sorry, I'm not the one that's so fucking uncertain about everything!
All Mortys Except Morty 30: You know what I'm certain of, Rick? I've really made up my mind about this, I never wanna see you again!
All Ricks Except Rick 30: You're never gonna see anything again you little dummy! You killed us!
Rick 30: Goddammit!
Morty 30: Ooh
Rick 30: Morty where's your collar I'll fix it
Morty 30: I dropped it
All Ricks Except Rick 30: What the hell? What have you done to me, Morty?
Rick 30: I'm okay with this. Be good Morty. Be better than me. Holy shit, the other collar! I'm not okay with this! I am not okay with this! Oh, sweet Jesus please let me live. Oh, my God I—I've gotta fix this thing, please God in Heaven, please, God, oh Lord, hear my prayers. Yes! Fuck you God! Not today, bitch.
All Ricks Except Rick 30: Please, God, if there's a Hell, please be merciful to me.
Rick 30: Yes I did it! There is no God! In your face. One dot, motherfuckers!
Morty: Yes, oh, yes, yes!
Summer: Woohoo! Whoo! Whoo!
Morty: Oh, that was a close call. Oh yeah, do it Rick, do it right.
Rick: You know what I'm talking about, oh yeah. I'm gonna do the cabbage patch, Morty. Check me out I'm doing the cabbage patch dance. It's a classic dance, remember, like this. Oh shit look at that.
Morty: Do the cabbage patch. Do—do—do the dance.
Summer: Hey wait a second, how come you guys took longer to get here?
Morty: I don't know. I think like one sixty-fourth of my collars didn't work. It's hard to keep straight now that I have sixty-three other memories of everything.
Rick: Yeah.
Morty: But I feel like one of the sixty-four Ricks like, sacrificed himself for me, maybe, I think.
Rick: Shut up, Morty. The last time you felt something, we all almost died. You little s—piece of shit.
Beth: Hey guys, we're home.
Morty & Summer: Mom, Dad!
Jerry: Um, hold the phone, where did you guys get those necklaces from? Uh, Lady Gaga, table for three, am I right?
Beth: *laughs*
Jerry: Are you guys Power Rangers? But only on one small part of your necks? Hey, do those things need batteries? Were they included? Clean up in the fruit isle! Not in a homophobic way though, they're just fruity necklaces is all I was saying.
Beth: *laughing* I'm gonna pee my pants.
Morty: Doesn't feel so good, does it?
Rick: No it doesn't. It hurts.
Beth: I'm gonna pee-hee-hee.
Jerry: Somebody call the planet of Tron, we have three Tron people over here. But seriously, are these Halloween costumes? Are you going as motorcycles? With green headlights instead of normal ones? Are you dogs? Robot dogs? Gosh, you guys are lame. Are those chokers from the 90's? What is this, a 90's nostalgia thing? Are you guys in that movie “The Craft” with Fairuza Balk?
Testicle Monster A: Hey man, when the hell were you?
Testicle Monster B: Looking for you, asshole.
Testicle Monster A: I told you past the dinosaurs.
Testicle Monster B: You know how much time is past the dinosaurs? Half of all time!
Testicle Monster A: Come on, man, it's this way...
Testicle Monster B: Come on, give me that thing, speed it up, he can't be this far back.
Testicle Monster A: There he is, there he is, there he is, there he is, stop, stop.
Testicle Monster B: So that's the guy, huh?
Testicle Monster A: Yeah, that's him. Hey, man, remember me?  I got something for your ass! You don't mess with time! You don't fuck with time, motherfucker!
Albert Einstein: I vill mess vith time!
Albert Einstein: I vill mess vith time...
Rick: Learning to fly this thing, Morty, it's gonna be really liberating. Y-Y-You’re gonna be free to go on all kinds of errands for me.
Morty: Cool.
Rick: *points out the window* See that planet right there? Don’t fly too close to that planet. Someone’ll come out and try to wash your windshield.  Hold on. *picks up* Yup. Yeah, I have it. Where do you wanna meet? Alright, cool. *hangs up* Alright Morty, lesson’s over. We got some business to attend to a few lightminutes south of here.
Jerry: Oh, you still use ‘south’ in space?
Rick: *startled* WHOA! Jesus, Jerry, what the hell are you doing here?!
Jerry: What are you talking about? We agreed a boy’s father should be present when he’s learning to drive.
Rick: I guess I remember that. *rubs forehead* Wow. And you’ve just been back there this whole time? Amazing. Well we don’t have time to take him to Earth, Morty. Head for 3124-917.
Jerry: *chuckles* Cool! Looks like I’m comin’ along for an adventure!
Rick: Yep.
Morty: This is where we’re going?
Rick: Nope.  This is. You can park in a handicapped spot, Morty. Anything with less than eight limbs is considered disabled here.
Jerry-Sitter: Well look at this fella. *pinches Jerry’s cheek* Aren’t you handsome?
Jerry: Thank you! I’m Jerry. *extends hand*
Jerry-Sitter: *as if speaking to a child* Oh, I know you are. Did you come here in a spaceship?
Jerry: I’m travelling with my son and father-in-law. Uh, wait, are they coming?
Jerry-Sitter: Oh, they’ll be back soon.
Jerry: What?
Pajama Jerry: I don’t know how this works!
Underpants Jerry: Help me!
Jerry: What the hell?
Pajama Jerry: I know, right?
Tuxedo Jerry: *enters room* Oh, what the hell?
Jerry: I know, right?
Morty: *looking at a pamphlet* Jerryboree? You created a daycare for my dad?
Rick: You kidding? I wish I had this idea. Well… I did have this idea, but I wish I was the version of me that owned it. That guy’s rich.
Receptionist: Don’t forget to check the reason for your drop-off.
Rick: *checks off “Stowaway” and “Annoying me”* Trust me Morty, I’ve heard stories from other Ricks. Jerrys don’t tend to last five minutes off of Earth. This is a totally unregistered cross-temporal asteroid. Here they can romp and play with other Jerrys. It couldn’t be safer.
Rick: Hey Morty, hang onto this. That number’s your dad. If you lose it, we’re not gonna be able to get him back.
Rick: Okay, wait here.
Morty: I wanna come with.
Rick: Don’t come with. It’s boring, it’s *burps* business stuff.
Morty: What kinda business do you do in a garage? You know, this seems a little shady.
Rick: Right, like nothing shady ever happened in a fully furnished office? You ever hear about Wall Street Morty? Y-You know what those guys do in th—in their fancy board rooms? They take their balls, and they dip ‘em in cocaine, and they wipe ‘em all over each other. You know, Grandpa goes around, and he does his business in public because Grandpa isn’t shady.
Rick: Ah, crap. *rolls down window* Hey, what’s up?
Krombopulos Michael: Hey, Rick! Haha! Here you go, three thousand Flurbos! D’you have the weapon?
Rick: Can… Can we please…? This is my grandson, Morty.
Krombopulos Michael: Well hi Morty! I’m Krombopulos Michael! I’m an assassin. I buy guns from your grandpa.
Rick: Ugh. *passes Krombopulos Michael a case containing the antimatter gun* Here, now go away.
Krombopulos Michael: *examines weapon* Ooh, yeah, this looks deadly. So this shoots antimatter? My target can’t be killed with regular matter. Nice to meet you, Morty! Listen, if you ever need anybody murdered, *passes Morty his card* please give me a call. I’m very discrete—
Rick: Y-Y-Y-You’re gonna give him your card?!
Krombopulos Michael: I have no code of ethics, I will kill anyone, anywhere! Children, animals, old people, doesn’t matter. I just love killin’!
Morty: …You sell weapons to killers for money?
Rick: Ugh… You’ve got what the intergalactic call a very planetary mindset, Morty. It’s more complicated out here! These are Flurbos. Do you understand what two humans can accomplish with three thousand of these?
Morty: Uh, what?
Rick: An entire afternoon at Blips and Chiiiitz!
Rick: Aw, this place is the best. It’s got beer, games, prizes, and you can never tell what time it is.
Morty: You sold a gun to a murderer so you could play video games?
Rick: Yeah, sure, if you spend all day shuffling words around you can make anything sound bad, Morty. *puts a helmet on Morty’s head* Here, check this out.
Roy: Ah!
Roy’s mother: Roy, what’s wrong?
Roy: I…had a nightmare. I was with an old man… He put a helmet on me.
Roy’s mother: It’s just a fever. Get some sleep, I don’t want you missing school on Monday. *walks out of the room and switches off the lights*
Teacher: I want you kids to look around you today and think about your future.  Now is the time in your life when anything is possible.
Announcer: Spiraling perfectly, it’s gonna be caught by Roy Parsons! Roy Parsons is at the 20!  Now he’s at the 10! Nothing can stop Roy the Rocket! Touchdown!
Roy’s wife: I just think it’s time to get realistic. Have you talked to my father about the carpet store? Roy?
Doctor: Had we caught it sooner… Well, hindsight is 20-20, Roy. What’s important is that we move quickly.
Roy: I’m not…ready to die…
Roy’s wife: *takes his hand* You’re not going to.
Customer: Hey, thanks for the carpet, Roy.
Voice: *shouting from off screen* Hey Roy, you pull those Persian off-white shags for the clearance sale?
Roy: Whoa. Sh-shit! Shit!
Morty: Whoa! What the hell?! Wha—Where am I?! What the hell?!
Rick: Fifty-five years. Not bad, Morty. You kinda wasted your thirties though with that whole birdwatching phase.
Morty: *looks around, grips his head* W… Where’s my wife?
Rick: Morty. You were just playing a game. It’s called Roy. Snap out of it, come on. *hands him his tickets*
Morty: I’m Morty… You’re Rick… Hey, you sold a gun to a guy that kills people!
Rick: Lookit this. You beat cancer and then you went back to work at the carpet store? Boo.
Morty: Don’t dodge the issue, Rick! Selling a gun to a hitman is the same as pulling the trigger!
Rick: It’s also the same as doing nothing. If Krombopulos Michael wants someone dead, there’s not a lot anybody can do to stop him. That’s why he does it for a living? Now if you’ll excuse me, it’s time to thrash your Roy score. *puts on the helmet*
Morty: You could stop this killing from happening, Rick! You know, y-you did a bad thing selling that gun, but you could undo it if you wanted!
Rick: Uh-huh, yeah, that’s the difference between you and me, Morty. I never go back to the carpet store.
Alien: *passing by, sees Rick playing Roy* Holy shit! This guy’s taking Roy off the grid!  This guy doesn’t have a social security number for Roy!
Jerry: Hi, I’m sorry, I think there was a misunderstanding. I’m an adult and would like to go home, please.
Jerry-Sitter: Well of course! Right through that tube. *points to a tube in the wall*
Jerry: *muttering to self* Unbelievable. *approaches the tube and starts climbing in*
Jerry-Sitter: You’re doing great!
Jerry: *indignantly* I know how to crawl in a tube. *to himself, while crawling* Ugh… Come on… This is harder than it looks…  Whoooooaaaa!
Pink-shirt Jerry: Marco?  Marco?
Other Jerry: Come find me.
Pink-shirt Jerry: Marco?
Jerry: You guys are enjoying this? Don’t you feel a little… patronized?
Pink-shirt Jerry: How so?
Daycare Beth: Jerry!
Other Jerry: Beeeth.
Jerry: Oh, come on, this is ridiculous!
Daycare Beth: I love you, Jerry!
Jerry: Aw… Beth…
Daycare Beth: Who wants to come watch Midnight Run with director’s commentary on?
Jerrys: Oh! Yes! Definitely!
Daycare Beth: First one there gets to adjust the picture settings!
Jerry: The factory tint setting is always too high! *climbs out of the ballpit and hurries after “Beth” with the other Jerrys*
Other Jerry: Out of my way!
Another Jerry: The factory tint setting is always too high!
Krombopulos Michael: Oh boy, here I go killin’ again!
Ship: You have arrived at Krombopulos Michael. Your destination is below.
Morty: *dazed* All out of off-white Persians… *gets out of the ship and realizes he killed Krombopulos Michael* Oh man, wha-wh-wh-what have I done?! *picks up KM’s arm and the antimatter gun*
Gromflomite:  Drop the gun!
Morty: You don’t understand! This guy was gonna kill someone!
Gromflomite: I guess that makes two of us. *fires up his weapon*
Rick: What are you doing Morty?! This is a Galactic Federation outpost! Look, I don’t have time to tell you my entire backstory, but Grandpa and government don’t get along!
Fart: You saved my life!
Rick: What?
Morty: Huh?! Are you Krombopulos Michael’s target? W-Wwwwhat’s your name?
Fart: My kind has no use for names. I communicate through what you call “Jessica’s feet.” No, “telepathy.”
Rick: Oh, good job, Morty. Y-Y-Y-You killed my best customer but you saved a mind-reading fart!
Fart: I like this name, ‘Fart.’ Morty, would you kindly release me by pulling that lever to the left of my cell? I am in great pain.
Rick: Morty, don’t do it.  Morty…  Morty, you idiot!
Morty: Oh crap, let’s get you outta here!
Rick: We can’t get him outta here. He’s gaseous. He’s not gonna make it through a portal, Morty.
Morty: *stomps past Rick* Well then I guess we’re all getting in the car! Right, uh…
Fart: Fart.
Morty: No! Jus-j-j-just get in the car!
Rick: Morty, come on, I-I wanna go back to Blips and Chitz. I don’t wanna deal with this!
Morty: Y-You’ve been clear on the fact that you don’t wanna help, so just go away!
Fart: More are coming.
Rick: Screw this. I’m out.
Morty: Oooh…! Come on, come on!
Gromflomite: Get out of the vehicle made of garbage or we will open fire!
Morty: *still trying to start the car* Oh no no no!
Gromflomite: Open fire!
Rick: Stupid-ass fart-saving carpet-store motherfucker! *shoves Morty out of the driver’s seat and takes the wheel* Move!
Rick: Wait, did you fuck with my seat settings?
Fart: More are coming.
Morty: Rick!
Rick: Yeah, yeah.
Gearhead: Your geldon convertor is pretty dinged up.
Rick: That’s ‘cause my grandson drives like a male Obavradian. Yeah, I said it. Some stereotypes are based in fact.
Gearhead: Actually, it’s because of years of neglect. You really need to respect your gears, Rick. To you, they’re just wheels with teeth, but in my culture, wars have been fought, entire—
Rick: *interrupts him* So I’ve heard. Just fix it. *to Morty* I don’t think the Gromflomites can track us now, but it looks like we’re gonna be here for awhile. *lowers voice* Or, ya know, if you still have that gun K. Michael dropped, we can finish the job and go home.
Fart: You do understand I’m telepathic, right?
Rick: I’m being polite.
Morty: Rick, we’re taking him back where he belongs!
Rick: Yeah, where’s that? Are you going on a quest to find he who smelt it?
Fart: I came here accidentally through a wormhole located in what you call “get out of my head, Fart, I know you’re in here, la la la la—” No, in what you call the Promethean Nebula.
Rick: Oh great, just a hop, skip, and an 800 lightyear jump!
Morty: You know, you can leave any time you want, Rick.
Rick: *walks away, muttering* Whatever you wanna do you little punk-ass little bitch…
Fart: Thank you, Morty. You are not like other carbon-based life forms. You put the value of all life above your own.
Morty: That’s how things should be. It’s how they could be.
Fart: I could not agree more.
Fart:  The world can be one together / Cosmos without hatred / Stars like diamonds in your eyes. / The ground can be space  / With feet marching toward a peaceful sky. / All the moonmen want things their way / But we make sure they see the sun. / Goodbye, moonmen / You say goodbye, moonmen. / Goodby—
Rick: *holding a golf club* Shut the fuck up about moonmen! This isn’t a musical number. This is a fucking operation, we gotta be cool and fucking lay low!
Random Jerry: *opens email and laughs* Duck, duck, birdie?  Very funny!
Jerry: Here comes another funny…
Other Jerry: Hahaha! Oh, this place is great.
Jerry: I almost wish I could stay longer than one day.
Other Jerry: *suddenly serious* You just might.
Jerry: W-What do you mean?
Other Jerry: These are the Jerrys whose Ricks and Mortys never came back.  …They live here now.
Jerry: Uuuum…
Gear Anchor: No gear turnings as of yet in the curious case of these unidentified humanoid fugitives  reportedly at large somewhere within the Gear System.
Rick: Son of a… *approaches Fart* Why were the Gromflomites holding you prisoner? What the fuck is so valuable about you?
Fart: I am no more valuable than life itself. However, I am able to alter the composition of atoms, like this.  That was oxygen. I added seventy-one protons to it.
Rick: *picks up the gold* Ah, terrific. The fart that pooped gold. No wonder every cop in the system is lookin’ for us! *pockets gold* Any species that gets a hold of this thing is gonna use it to take over the galaxy. Do you know how inconvenient that’s gonna be to my work?
Rick: Somebody dropped the dime on us. Gearhead… *turns around*
Gearhead: *pointing a gun at Rick* I’m sorry, Rick. The reward on your head is too high. And like you always say, you gotta look out for Number One.
Rick: Number One is me, asshole! You’re supposed to be my friend!
Gearhead: Friend? Do you even know my real name? It’s Revolio Clockberg Junior. I belong to an entire species of gear people. Calling me ‘Gearhead’ is like calling a Chinese person ‘Asia-face.’
Gearhead: No, not twigs!
Rick: Two things I wanna make clear to everybody in this room. Never betray me, and it’s time to go.
Gear Policeman #1: Nobody move!
Gear Policeman #2: Oh my god.
Gear Policeman #1: Are those…?
Rick: Hey Morty, remember when you said selling a gun was as bad as pulling the trigger? How do you feel about all these people getting killed because of your choices?
Morty: I did the right thing, Rick!
Rick: Tell that to Gearhead’s gearsticles.
Morty: You did that!
Rick: Wrong! I’d be playin’ Roy right now. At a certain point, my hands are tied, Morty.
Jerry: *playing poker with other Jerrys, sighs* I can’t believe Rick did this. This is the eighth to the last straw.
Bearded Jerry: Ante up.
Jerry: You know what? *throws down cards* Screw it! I have a better gamble for your guys. *leans forward* I say we escape.
Bearded Jerry: If you want to leave, you can just go out the front door.
Tank-top Jerry: You think we’re kept here against our will? That would be illegal.
Jerry: But… If you can leave, then why are you still here?
Buzzcut Jerry: Same reason as you. *looks to other Jerrys for confirmation* …We’re Jerrys.
Jerry: I’m leaving.
Jerry-Sitter: Okay then, that was always allowed.
Rick: Morty, take the wheel!
Morty: Whoa, whoa!
Rick: Whoa!
Rick: Geez, dammit, Morty! Who taught you to fly this thing?! *laughs* Haha, I’m kidding, I know that’s on me.
Morty: Um, Rick!
Rick: Shit. Well, I guess this is it.
Fart: Morty, crack the window.
Fart: I wonder why Greg is always so critical of my girlfriend.
Officer: Well… He’d probably like to have me to himself, that’s how friends are.
Fart: Or does he want her to himself?
Fart: The world can be one together / Cosmos without hatred / Stars like diamonds in your eyes.
Officer: *anguished* My life is a fucking joke.
Fart: Goodbye, moonmen. / You say, goodbye, moonmen.
Fart: Goodbye, moonmen…  Alright, let’s proceed.
Rick: Damn. Can’t blame that on the dog. …Talk about silent but deadly. I-I’ve seen some nerve gas but ga- th-this gas got some nerve! Haha, you know what I’m sayin’?
Morty: *not amused* Are you done?
Rick: I’ll let you know, Morty. Gone with the wind, am I right? If you don’t like that one, Morty, an alt on that one could be, like…if I said Gasablanca! …Alright, I’m done.  Let’s get to the Promethean Nebula, so my grandson can finish savin’ a life!
Garblovian: Ga-ga blahg blahg?
Jerry: Um… Earth, please?
Jerry: Um… Is this… Do I pay?
Garblovian: Agah blahg-blah!
Jerry: Sorry!
Jerry: Hmm. Hmm… *hesitantly makes to pet the creature, but its face suddenly splays out in a tentacle formation* Agh! *runs away*
Garblovian: Agah blahg blahg?
Jerry: I don’t…
Garblovian: *angrily* Agah blahg!
Jerry: What do you want?
Garblovian: *holds out cup* Agah blahg blah—
Jerry: Oh! *looks at self and begins panicking* Ahahaaaahhhhh….
Jerry: *wiping goo off himself* Uhhh… Huhhh….  Oooh! *runs away*
Tank-top Jerry: Hey, are you the one that left?
Jerry: *single nod*
Tank-top Jerry: I get it. It’s… uh… a hassle out there.
Jerry: *suddenly less forlorn* Right? Who needs that?
Other Jerrys: *to one another* Right? Not me.
Paul: Oh-ho, not us!
Jerry: Uh… Who are you?
Paul: Oh, excuse me. Paul Fleishman. *shakes Jerry’s hand* Infinite timelines! In some of them Beth remarries.
Jerry: …Geez…
Paul: Don’t worry. I treat Beth very well, and I do not overstep my bounds with Morty. Every kid needs a dad, but there’s no replacing you. Hey, you wanna give us a hand with this? *gestures to the TV* We’re trying to figure out how to get the sound coming through the stereo instead of the TV. I-I-I don’t—It’s very difficult.
Jerry: Oh. Uh, well, is there an Aux input?
Tank-top Jerry: I tried that, but there’s two different colors.
Various Jerrys: Uh… There’s two different colors.
Fart: The wormhole is seventy of what you call ‘meters’ what you call ‘north’ of what you call ‘here.’
Rick: Fine. Morty, take your fart to his hole and say your goodbyes. I’m gonna find some fuel and take a biiiig fat Morty.  That’s my new word for ‘shit’ because of today’s events.
Fart: Here it is. This should take me back to my kind.
Morty: I’m gonna miss you, um, Fart. I’m really sorry your name became Fart.
Fart: I will be back soon, Morty.
Morty: *excited* Really?
Fart: After I return to the others with this location, we will be back for your cleansing.
Morty: Um… Cleansing…?
Fart: Carbon-based life is a threat to all higher life. To us, you are what you would call a disease. Wherever we discover you, we cure it. You said yourself that life must be protected even through sacrifice.  You haven’t changed your mind about that. I can sense your thoughts. Morty.
Morty: *wipes his eyes* Um… Before you go… Could you sing a… C-Could you sing for me again?
Fart: Yes, Morty. *approaches him as “Goodbye Moonmen” begins, again set to a sequence formed from Morty’s imagination* Cosmos without hatred / Blinding stars of cosmic light / Quasars shine through endless night / And everything is one in the beauty / And now we say goodby—
Fart: Morty… Why… Why?
Morty: Goodbye.
Rick: So did you guys make out a little bit? Is he gonna send you a postcard?  Man, that guy hit the lottery when he crossed paths with you.
Rick: Morty, I know I picked on your core beliefs and decision making a lot today, but I am glad you insisted on gettin’ that fart home. You know, at least all the death and destruction wasn’t for nothin’, you know? *notices Morty’s detached, almost anguished expression* You miss your fart friend, huh? Well I’ve got a little surprise for you, buddy. While you were gone I found another wormhole with millions of beings just like him on the other side and they’re all coming to visit.
Morty: *panicking* What?! Rick! No, you can’t!
Rick: Too late, Morty. The hole’s opening.
Morty: No, no, Rick! You don’t understand!
Rick: Th-there’s a lot more where that came from too.
Rick: Hey. *taps another Rick’s arm* Hey bro. How many people was your Morty responsible for killing today?
Other Rick: None, we chilled at Blips and Chitz all day, ain’t that right homie?
Other Morty: Darn right bro! Roy rules!
Other Rick: Haha!
Rick: *glares at Morty* Must be nice… Hey, Morty, there’s our Jerry.
Jerry: Mm, I missed you. Hey, Rick.
Rick: Glad you’re safe Jerry. What do you say we go home?
Jerry: I’d like that.
Another Rick: *holding a ticket* Hey, wait, do you have 5126?
Rick: Uh, I’m not sure. Morty.
Other Rick: Uh, that’s a Blips and Chitz ticket.
Morty: What?!
Rick: Way to go, Morty. Eh, whatever.
Jerrys: Uh… W-wait, what?
Ricks: Alright, come on, Jerry.
Announcer: Are you tired of the same daily droll? Well, get on over to Blips and Chitz!  We got, uh… one game! We got a whole bunch of games here! Uh, we got chabos and flobos and you can shoot things! Get on over here and play the games! Use your Flurbos to get tickets! Roy 2 just got here! G-Get over here at Ch… Chips and Chitz!
Rick: It’s the coolest place in the world! Hahahaha, I g- I get to be in a commercial!
All:  Love. Connection. Experience.
Rick: Yeah Morty
All:  Come together. With love. connection, experience!
Rick: It's my favourite song.
Morty: Hahahahaha, yeah.
Rick: Oh yeah, distress beacon!  Yeah baby!
Morty: You're excited about that?
Rick: The first rule of space travel kids, is always check out distress beacons; nine out of ten times its a ship full of dead aliens and a bunch of free shit!
Morty and Summer: Whoa!
Rick: One out of ten times its a deadly trap, but I'm ready to roll those dice!
Summer: Seems like something terrible happened here.
Rick: Yeah. Cha-ching. Oh yeah, if you find a room full of eggs, don't shy away from it, give one of them a shake. Those facehuggers are worth more than this ship.
Morty: Uh, what's that?
Rick: This will make the cops write it up as a looting by the Korblocks.
Summer: That's horrible!
Rick: I hear you man, cops are racist.
Rick: Oh, hey! You're alive! Thank God.
Female alien: Can you help us? Our planet was taken over by some kind of  entity! It absorbed the minds of our people!
Male alien 1: We didn't notice until it was too late. The people it takes over, they look like your friends, your family, your leaders, but they're not, themselves any more; They're part of It.
Rick: And how do you know it didn't get on the ship with you? Those two ding-dongs seem pretty calm about the whole thing.
Male alien with glasses: Hey! No, no- uurgh!
Rick: Called it.
All six aliens together: Hello Rick. Long time no see.
Rick: Unity!?
Morty: Rick?
Summer: Grandpa?
Rick: Oh boy. Uh, these are my grandkids, Summer and Morty. Summer, Morty, this is uh, Unity. We sort of used to, uh, date.
Rick: Quite an operation you got going here Une. You're a whole planet now huh?
Unity : After we broke up, I spend some time wandering through space,
Unity : then I found this world,
Unity : where I was better able to focus on my passion for unification.
Summer: You mean stealing peoples’ bodies?
Rick: Summer, rude. Why don't you kids run off and play with Unity while Unity and I do some catching up.
Summer: Ugh.
Morty: Wait! Rick, aren't these people going to barf into our mouths and absorb us?
Unity : You're guests here on my planet, you're free to be yourselves; I've never been good at disappointing Rick.
Summer: Well now I'm going to barf. Come on Morty.
Beth: Jerry, what are you- what are you doing in here?
Jerry: I'm trying to find our weed whacker, ‘cause our weeds are wack, yo.
Beth: But you can't go in the garage when Rick's not here.
Jerry: I can't?
Beth: Well, he doesn't like it.
Jerry: What's he gonna do, crash rent-free at his other family's house?
Beth: What is that supposed to mean?
Jerry: Your dad gets to walk all over us because of your abandonment issues! He's playing you, shorty.
Beth: Oh, stop affecting that stupid hip-hop dialect!
Jerry: Stop shifting the crosshairs to my ironic urban patois just because your relationship with your father is toe-up from the flow-up.
Jerry: What the hell was that?
Beth:  I don't know, let's just leave!
Jerry: That is a hatch! Your father put a hatch in my garage!
Beth: You don't know it was him!  Anyway, we’re not supposed to be in here!
Jerry: Obviously, neither is whatever's gurgling down there.
Rick: World peace achieved. Nice! A little weird to publish a paper about it for yourself, but hey. So what's next?
Unity : After I become a type-one civilisation, this world will be invited into the Galactic Federation.
Rick: Oh, goody.
Unity : From there I'll have access to countless planets and species.
Unity : One by one, I will unify them, I will become the universe, and I will be what the single-minded once called a god.
Rick:  I like that. Oh, that's pretty sexy. Hey listen, where can I get a drink around here?
Unity : Recreational substances were phased out here. There's no need for escape from the self when your world is one.
Rick: Unity, Unity, who am I talking to? I watched you assimilate a whole police station just to get your hands on the evidence locker.
Unity : Rick, when we met I was a young hivemind with the population of a small town. People... change.
Unity : Especially when I change them. I'm sorry to disappoint you, but... I’ve grown.
Rick: Hey, listen, I’ve grown too. I have! See, I’ve- I’ve reconnected with my family, right?
Unity : Hm, why is that I wonder?
Rick: Maybe it's part of getting old. Maybe I just miss being with... a collective.
Unity : Yes Rick! Yes! Yes!
Rick: Oh yeah!
Unity : Yes! Yes!
Rick: Wait, wait, stop! H-Hold it! Not like this. We need a hang glider. And a crotchless Uncle Sam costume. And I want the entire field of your largest stadium covered end to end with naked redheads! And I want the stands packed with every man that remotely resembles my father!
Morty: Look at ‘em go! So coordinated! What’s your problem? They’re making you into a Mount Rushmore! They made burgers!
Summer: Morty, open your eyes! There is no they! These poor people's’ bodies are being used! They're a planet of puppets!
Unity : I can hear you.
Summer: Ugh!
Morty: Well, seems like everybody here's cool with it. Except for all those redheads. They seem like they're in a hurry to be somewhere else.
Unity : Balloon, Summer? Balloon, Morty?
Summer: No, we don't want your dumb balloons. We’re bored. Take us back to Rick.
Unity : Now's... not a good time.
Rick: Oh yeah! I want youuuuuu!
Unity : Go son go! Go son go! Go son go!
Jerry: Oh! Real nice! Real nice! How does a man do this without me noticing?
Beth: Oh, you know my dad. Once he puts his mind to something...
Jerry: You're spinning this to his credit?
Jerry: I'm going down there.
Beth: Jerry!
Jerry: Beth, this is my house, which makes this my garage, my secret hatch, my hidden subterranean lair,  and my faceless gargler. Now, are you going to keep hating this playa, or are you gonna jack my steed?
Beth: Okay, you're just making stuff up now.
Rick: Oh my god. Oh my god.
Unity : Oh Rick, it was so bad.
Rick: What's this ‘was’ stuff? I just need to hydrate and then we’re doing that again!
Unity : Oh damn.
Rick: Listen, if this is an invasion I gotta sit this one out, but I'll- I'll be back to have sex with the survivors.
Unity : It's a neighboring hivemind species, Beta-7. Our planet's maintained a practical alliance for exchange of vital resources.  So be nice!
Beta-7: Unity.  Is it a... bad time? Are all... present lifeforms... assimilated?
Unity : Beta-7, this is my single-minded friend from Earth, Rick.
Beta-7: Rick... Sanchez. Unity has spoken of you.
Rick: All bad I hope.
Rick: Whoa, Jesus Christ!
Unity : Beta-7, if my allies are a problem for you perhaps our alliance is as well.
Beta-7: Our alliance is beneficial. When Beta-7 expresses concern it- it's only ... be-because...
Rick: Oh snap! Powdered neutronium? Amphetetron? You know what I can make with this stuff?
Unity : Oh... Rick, I- I shouldn't...
Rick: Come on, it's not every day that I'm in town! It- it's for old time's sake.
Unity : Uh... Okay, what the hell! We can purify the resin and make fractal dust!
Rick: Oh, I was thinking velocitinis, but...
Unity: Aww, old man Rick can't party with the whole planet?
Rick: I can do whatever you do and more, baby.
Beta-7: Hrmm...
Rick: You know, I think Beta-7 over there is hoping your alliance can be more than practical.
Jerry: Well, this explains the six thousand dollar electric bill.
Blim Blam:
Jerry: Well. Nice. Real nice. Alien prisoners under the house. Real nice. Nice. Reeeal-
Beth: Goddamn it, stop.
Summer: Wake up people! You have to fight it! You're under the spell of an evil monster!
Unity : I can hear you.
Summer: Yeah! So you keep saying!
Morty: Summer!
Summer: Wake up! You have to have some individuality left in there!
Unity : Why do you hate me, Summer?
Summer: I'm not talking to you! I'm talking to...
Summer: ...Steven Phillips! Steven! Set yourself free!
Unity : Summer, before I took over this planet, this man was a registered sex offender.
Summer: ...Yeah, well so what? At least he was himself.
Unity : This woman was a drug addict on the verge of suicide. Now she's a marine biologist.
Morty: Listen Unity, I don't think my sister's trying to say that life would be perfect without you. I think she's just saying that life would be... you know, life.
Unity : I have transformed life here into a paradise. Prostitutes are now scientists. The homeless are now phisosophers.
Summer: Oh, phi- phisosophers?
Unity : Philophiluh... phiphophibup...
Summer: Oh my god. Where did you learn to talk you grandpa-stealing slut?
Unity : I'm feeling... urk!
Morty: Oh man! Let me help all of you guys up!
Unity : I'm fine!
Unity : Do you know what I love about you, Rick? You're the only single mind I’ve met who really sees the big picture.
Rick: You got that right. But... baby, listen. Y-you're talking about taking over planets and galaxies, you gotta... you gotta just... remember to let go sometimes, you know.
Unity : I can let go! Hey, look! You see that town across the river? Watch this.
Rick: Whoa!
Unity : Ha ha! Woot!
Rick: Whoa! That's not what I meant!
Unity :  It's okay! It's okay, I evacuated! I evacuated the town, look!
Unity : Hey! Right here! We’re fine!
Rick:  Oh, that was awesome! My grandkids weren't in that town, right? A-are my grandkids alive? ... H-hey, my drink is empty.
Morty and Summer: Aah!
Summer: Unity, what's happening?
Steven Phillips: Who's Unity? You kids have nice feet. Mind if I take a picture?
Summer: Gross, no!
Morty: I think you're getting what you wanted, Summer. Something's happening to Unity.
Summer: Do... all of you remember who you are?
Ron Benson: ...Yeah. My name is Ron Benson. I'm... an electrical engineer. Father of two, and as you can see from my flat concentric nipple rings, I'm a member of this planet's top race!
Summer: Okay, that's good! Uh... Don't focus too much on the last part, but...
Daryl Jefferson: I'm Daryll Jefferson. I'm a landscaper. And I'll be damned if that ripple-nipple bitch's race is superior!  The cone-nipple people will rule this world!
Ron Benson: You shut your mouth, you dirty knife-nipple bastard!
Daryl Jefferson: What'd you say to me, you target-chested piece of shit?
Alien man: Race war!
Summer: Why are you fighting? Can't you see you're all the same?
Morty: Ah, Summer. Ha ha. First race war, huh?
Morty: Way to go, Summer. You started a race war.
Summer: I didn't start it! They're the racists! I... I  merely empowered them to follow their apparently misguided dreams!
Morty: Okay, thanks for clarifying! Y- I'll have a super accurate headstone now!
Rioter: Hey wait, what race are you guys?
Morty: We’re neither! S-see?
Summer: Yeah, take my word for it. We just have regular nipples.
Rioter: Hey! These two freaks have no race!
Morty: Oh, there's no place like home! There's no place like home! Remember, Summer?
Summer: Oh...
Morty: From Dorothy and The Tiny People movie?
Summer: O-oh, yes, yes yes...
Morty: All the tiny people?
Summer: Dorothy, take us away! Take us away!
drops in and surrounds the two, pushing the rioters back. An assimilated drops down and pulls the two into a hovercopter)
Unity : Hello Summer. Hello Morty.
Unity : It's okay! You're safe now.
Morty: U-Unity?
Unity : Yes.
Summer: Oh, Unity I am so sorry. I didn't know freedom meant people doing stuff that sucks! I was thinking more of... a choose-your-own-cellphone-carrier thing.
Unity : Oh, Summer, you did nothing wrong! I'm having fun with your grandpa! Lost a little control. Probably shouldn't be piloting a hovercopter, nor should I be... running two hundred thousand pediatric hospitals and twelve million deep friers, but hey! It's not like this planet can take its business elsewhere!
Morty: Um... should we maybe stop somewhere and get you a coffee? Maybe splash a little water on your face, or...?
Unity : No, no, if I wanted to be sober, I wouldn't have gotten drunk! Wooohoooo!
Jerry: Oh man. I cannot wait. I cannot wait to hear Rick explain his way around this. He is gone!
Beth: Jerry, stop! Please, okay, we weren't even supposed to be down here. If we confront him about this-
Jerry: Oh my god! I love this! I love that this is how far you will go for him. You wanna go upstairs, and cut carrots, and watch a Lifetime original, above a fucking alien dungeon! Your relationship with your father is psychotic!
Beth: Oh listen to you relish the idea that my genius father is a bad person! Step out of your ego for a second and look at this thing! It's a monster! He might have it chained up so that it doesn't eat the planet!
Jerry: Right, because your father's such an altruist? I once saw him briefly forget the word for humans! He's probably harvesting this creature's organs!
Beth: He's probably racing to cure its space aids!
Jerry: He's going to eat it!
Beth: He's protecting it!
Blim Blam:
Both: Shut up!
Summer: Unity! This place is a mess!
Unity : Oh, it's cool! The part of me that's the cleaning lady is coming on Friday.  Oh my god! I have a meeting at the galactic federation in an hour. Oh, I'll never make it! Ah, I'll push it to next week.
Morty: Unity, could you get Rick out here please?
Unity : He's... unavailable! He's-
Summer: Having sex with you, we get it! Gross. Get him out here now.
Unity : I don't think he wants to be-
Summer:  Grandpa Rick!
Morty:  Rick! Rick!
Summer:  I'm gonna tell mom and dad about the gagoo you have locked up under the garage!
Rick: What the hell... is your problem?
Summer: Grandpa, we need to go home! Now!
Rick: Fine, geez!
Rick: See ya!
Morty: Uh, Rick? I think we should all go.
Rick: Tend your garden, kids, I'm kinda doing a thing here.
Summer: Grandpa Rick, we’re not leaving without you!
Rick: Oh my god  you guys I get it. You're afraid the big bad hivemind is gonna steal  your grandpa away.
Summer: Actually, no. I think Unity's great and you're a horrible influence on it!
Rick: What?
Morty: This isn't healthy, Rick! Y- you know you-you're really up to no good around here. I-at-at this place,  you know?
Summer: You and Unity are like... like... leggings and mid-calf boots. You think you're great together but you're just bringing out the worst in each other!
Rick: Oh, gee, boy Summer, well put. Uh, why don't we see what Unity thinks. Unity?
Unity : I'm just taking a little break from stuff. You know? I need to relax.
Rick: Oh, hey, wh-what's this on the news, guys? L-l-let me turn it up.
Unity : In the news today, this looks a lot worse than it is. We’re... really just having a good time. Karen?
Unity : Thanks, Todd. Up next: Are you a concerned grandchild or just a buzzkill? We'll tell you how you can really know for sure!
Rick: I think you two are a little outnumbered.
Summer: Okay! Well, what if you did it for me? What if you came with us as a favour to us... because you love us?
Rick: What? Dumb. Bye.
Morty: But Rick, Summer's just-
Rick: Summer's just a hyper-emotional, needy little- what's the word I'm looking for here... uh- human! It runs in the family! I can tolerate it but I can't give a crap about it. Take a hike.
Summer: Take care of yourself, Unity.
Rick: I'm not looking for judgement, just a yes or no. Can you assimilate a giraffe?
Beth: You're the worst!
Jerry: No! You're the worst! You don't support this family!
Jerry: All you care about is yourself!
Beth: You think supporting the family is about supporting you emotionally...
Jerry: You've got two children being dragged across the cosmos...
Beth: ...but you're unsupportable! Because it's never enough, Jerry!
Jerry: ...by your dangerously ill father, and you force me to watch it happen!
Beth: It will never be enough support to satisfy you! And you don't even know what it's like...
Jerry: Because you'd rather lose them and lose me than lose him!
Beth: ...to be afraid of losing anything because you cling and you cling and you cling...
Jerry: And why? Because you're the child, Beth. You, not me, you!
Jerry: Aaah!
Beth: Oh my god!
Beth and Jerry: Aah!
Blim Blam: Um, first of all, hello. Uh, my name is Blim Blam the korblok. Second of all, cards on the table: I am a murderer that eats babies and I came to this planet to eat babies. However, I am also carrying a highly infectious disease, that I suppose you could call ‘space aids’ as you put it, and Rick did chain me up so that he could attempt to cure it. At the same time, Rick's motivation to cure my disease was not to save my life or anyone else's, but to patent and sell the cure for billions of blemflarks. But you know the reason why I ripped my chains out of the wall? And do you know why I'm never coming back to this planet? Because the two of you are the fucking worst! You both hate yourselves and each other! And the idea that it has anything to do with Rick is laughable! I'd laugh but I'm biologically incapable, that's how alien I am! And even I'm sitting here listening to the two of you, and being like, what the fuck?!? So! Good luck with your shitty marriage, and I'm sorry that Rick has to deal with either of you. Blim Blam, out!
Blim Blam: You know what? I'm taking this.
Blim Blam: How do you- what is this?
Blim Blam: Uh, is there a slow setting? Best door ever.
Rick: Aaah!  Okay, okay, now make him cry. But happy cry. Now make ‘em all make fun of the blonde one. Now make ‘em all do it on the table! I can’t believe you created a whole show for me. Now cancel it! Okay, now put it back on. Haha!  Alright, I’m bored.
Unity : Rick, is there a way for you to call Summer and Morty? I feel bad that they-
Rick: Pfft, screw those guys! Uugh, I'll be right back. Don't waste your brain on those weirdos, Unity. They're no different from any other aimless chumps that you occupy. They just put you at the centre of their lives because you're powerful and then because they put you there they want you to be less powerful. Never gonna happen though, right?
Unity : Never.
Rick: Never! Back in a flash.
Rick: Best weekend ever, Rick! I agree, Rick! Let's see how long we can go!
Rick: Hey Une! You got any more-
Unity : Rick, forgive me for doing this in notes. I'm not strong enough to do it in persons.
Unity : I realize now that I'm attracted to you for the same reason I can't be with you. You can't change. And I have no problem with that, but... it clearly means I have a problem with myself.
Unity : I'm sure there's no perfect version of me. I'm sure I'll just unify species after species and never really be complete.
Unity : But I know how it goes with us. I lose who I am and become part of you. Because in a strange way you're better at what I do without even trying. Yours, and nobody else's, Unity. P.S. I don't know where those coal miners were before they got assimilated. You might want to get checked.
Rick: Hey.
Beth: Dad...  I... um... Jerry and I were looking for our weed whacker, and found your subterranean lair... and your alien prisoner. And... he got away. And I know I sound like mom but I can't sacrifice this whole family's safety just because I'm afraid you'll leave again, so no more alien prisoners, and, no more subterranean excavation without consulting us.
Rick: Okay.
Beth: ...Okay? Y-y-y-y-Okay like you're gonna quietly teleport somewhere and never come back?
Rick: No. It's your house.
Summer: Grandpa Rick! What happened... with Unity?
Rick: Who? Oh. Unity. Yeah, well, I mean honestly we’re talking about an entity that thrives on enslavement, you know. It's not cool. Fun's fun but who needs it? I'll be in the garage.
Rick: Unity! Unity! Unity!
Beta-7: How can I assist you?
Rick: I wanna talk to  Unity. Beta-7, I know it's in there!
Beta-7: You're classified as a hostile entity, and Unity doesn't want to talk to you.
Rick: I know your game, Beta-7, I’ve met a billion of you, you little on-deck in-the-wind shoulder to cry on!
Beta-7: You are classified as a hostile entity.
Rick: Well, you're just loving this, mother f- this isn't gonna shape out like you think, pal! Unity's not into other hiveminds! It's gonna suck you in and use you up and a month from now I'm going to be making out with all of you in a bunch of red wigs! Unity! Unity! Unity, I know you can hear me! Get out here!
Beta-7: Weapons systems engaged.
Rick: Oh, in your dreams you have weapons systems.
Morty: Ugh, Rick, you said we were going to a movie.
Rick: We are, Morty. Alright, Beta-shit-7, you just got saved by the bell, bitch!
Jerry: Steve, I just got a weird e-mail. Did you buy us airline tickets?
Uncle Steve: Aw shoot, it was supposed to be a surprise! I wanted to thank you for letting me live here all this time, so I'm treating the family to a vacation!
Beth: Steve, you're so sweet!
Morty: Thanks Uncle Steve!
Summer: Best uncle ever!
Uncle Steve: Look out world, the Smith family is goin' to Paris!
Summer:  Yeah! Awesome!
Jerry: Rick, I don't like glowing rocks in the kitchen trash.
Rick: Well, I don't like your unemployed genes in my grandchildren, Jerry. But life is made of little concessions.
Jerry: I, you know what, I-
Uncle Steve: You're gonna land on your feet Jer. Some company out there's gonna thank they're lucky stars they hired my little brother.
Rick: Who the fuck are you?
Jerry: My goofy brother Steve. He's been living here almost a year now, are you losing your mind?
Uncle Steve: Hey someone's been spending too much time around glowing rocks am I right?
Morty: What the hell, Rick? What the hell?
Rick: Everybody just relax for a second. There's no such thing as an "Uncle Steve." That is an alien parasite.
Jerry: But I've known him my whole life!
Rick: No, you haven't Jerry.  These telepathic little bastards, they embed themselves in memories they use those to multiply, spread out, and take over planets. It's disgusting.
Morty: Steve wasn't real?
Rick: He's a real piece of shit! This is a big one, someone probably tracked in last week on the bottom of their shoe or on a piece of alien fruit.
Summer: Someone?
Rick: Get off the high road, Summer. We all got pink eye because you won't stop texting on the toilet.
Morty: But Uncle Steve taught me how to ride a bike.
Rick: No, "Steve" put that memory in your brain so he could live in your house, eat your food, and multiply. We could be infested with these things, so we gotta keep an eye out for any zany, wacky characters that pop up.
Mr. Poopybutthole: Ooh wee, whatever you want Rick! We're here to help!
Rick: Thanks Mr. Poopybutthole. I always could count on you.
*Theme song plays*
Rick: Alright, there's six of us and that's it. Me, Morty, Jerry, Beth, Mr. Poopybutthole, and Summer.
Mr. Poopybutthole: Maybe you got the first one in time Rick!
Rick: Can't afford to chance it.
Beth: Dad, why does our house have blast shields?
Rick: Trust me, Beth, you don't wanna know how many answers that question has.
Mr Poopybutthole: Ooh, gosh, it feels claustrophobic! Reminds me of that time we all got stuck in the elevator together. Y-- remember that? After the Hulk musical?
Beth: Jerry, buttons don't work better if you hit them harder, and foam fists don't make you strong.
Jerry: I know. Friends make you strong. I watched the same musical you did.
Rick: Why couldn't I bring my portal gun?
Morty: Why did all the drinks have to be extra large? Oh, the Hulk. I just got that.
Summer: Just pee your pants. I did it the minute we got stuck.  Oh, oh, yeah, yeah, shame me. At least when I'm disgusting, it's on purpose.
Mr. Poopybutthole: Oh, y'all, we're gonna be fine. I've always been here for you guys, and I always will be.
Nicky: Somebody call for repairs?
All: Yay! Cousin Nicky!
Nicky: It's me, Cousin Nicky. I'm walkin' here! I mean, I'm not. I'm crouched in the elevator shaft, but hey, I'm walkin' here!
Nicky: It's true. We really do get into some crazy situations as a family, mostly when we're cooped up like this. Hey, maybe Mr. Poopypants is right. L-let's get some fresh air.
Morty: Come on, cousin Nicky. You heard Rick. We have to stay quarantined until we know that there's no more of these things.
Nicky: I hear you, Morty. Back in Brooklyn, we got a sayin' -- "we're walkin' here!"
Jerry: Nicky!
Nicky: Oh!
Morty: What the...? Cousin Nicky was a parasite?!
Rick: Six, Morty! There's supposed to be six of us! If there's seven, then that means somebody's not real.
Beth: But how did you know it was Nicky?
Rick: I guessed. That's why I aimed for his shoulder.
Beth: So we can't trust any of our memories now? Nicky was the reason we found that old nazi submarine. Did that not even happen?
Jerry: Well, of course it happened.
Nazi: Now that I possess the mighty staff of Rah-gubaba, the world will tremble before the Fourth Reich!
Morty: This is the last time I ask you for help on my history final, Rick.
Nicky: Hey, we got a word for Nazis back in Brooklyn, pal.
Nazi: I'm comfortable being called a Nazi. You think there's some other word that will hurt my feelings?  Yeah. Think before you talk shit. Rah-gubaba, help me kill America!
All: Mr. Beauregard!
Mr. Beauregard: After due consideration, I have elected not to retire.
All: Yeah! Oh, thank god!
Mr. Beauregard: Now, I believe someone has a final exam to attend. Set a course for Morty's high school.
Mr. Beauregard: Perhaps I'm biased, but if that story never happened, then I wouldn't still be the family butler.  dare to dream.
Rick: Wait.
Summer: And if Mr. Beauregard wasn't our butler, it's safe to say the family'd be in a hell of a lot of trouble.
Rick: No! Don't flashback!
Summer: You're just gonna make more swelling.
Beth: Don't worry, Jerry. Just relax. We called the fire department.
Jerry: You know they won't come here anymore.
Mr. Beauregard: Marmalade is served.
Frankenstein: I guess I take back what I said about British cuisine.
Rick: Take that!
Sleepy Gary: We're trying to sleep.
Morty: I don't want to go to the dance alone.
Mr. Beauregard : Then perhaps, you shouldn't.
Beth: Aww. Mr. Beauregard.
Mr. Beauregard: Shall we, master Morty?
Morty: We shall.
Beth: Oh, wait, don't leave without letting Photography Raptor take a picture.
Rick: Everybody stop remembering! These parasites are like bed bugs, and every flashback is another mattress. Look! There's only supposed to be six people in this house.
Beth: But there's always been 10.
Rick: No! Uh, the fact that I wrote this number down means that there's four parasites.
Frankenstein: You sure about that, Rick?
Mr. Beauregard: Begging your pardon, master Rick, but I seem to recall a great deal of confusion surrounding that number.
Rick: All right, there's six of us,  and that's it. Me, Morty, Jerry, Beth, Mr. Poopybutthole, Frankenstein, Sleepy Gary, Photography raptor, Mr. Beauregard, and Summer.
Beth: Uh, dad, that's like 10 people.
Rick: 6, 10, what's the difference? I just love the number 6 for no reason! Where's my pencil at?
Pencilvester: Right here, Rick! Use me!
Rick: Oh, thanks, Pencilvester!  Yeah,I-I g-- I guess that is what happened, but I-I don't get why I would do that.
Pencilvester: Everybody makes mistakes, Rick. Why do you think I have one of these?
Beth: That's it. Photos. Hard evidence.  You're not in any of my photos, Mr. Poopybutthole.
Mr. Poopybutthole: Well, what do you know about this? You're not in any of mine.
Summer: All I have are pictures of me and my friends from school.  What? What teenage girl has pictures of her family? It's not like we're Mormon or dying.
Frankenstein: I will admit it's suspicious that Summer's only friend is a magic ballerina lamb that we've never seen.
Tinkles: Summer!
Summer: Tinkles! It's past my bedtime.
Tinkles:  Not in never past bedtime land! Here we go!
♪ Summer and Tinkles ♪ ♪ friends with each other ♪ ♪ living in never past bedtime land ♪ ♪ no kitchen sinkles ♪ ♪ no little brother ♪ ♪ going to raves and waving our hands ♪  ♪ Summer and Tinkles, friends to the end ♪ ♪ group text the whole crew, my motherfuckin' friends! ♪ ♪ ketchup to the salt, salt to the fry ♪ ♪ "t" to the "inkle" with a capital "I" ♪
Summer: Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Ooh!
Gary: Summer, we're trying to sleep.
Summer: It was Tinkles! Tinkes?
Rick: That is su--  -- suspicious. We're always hearing about this Tinkles character, but we never get to –
Tinkles: Hi, everybody. I'm Tinkles, and these are my friends.
Summer: See, everyone? Tinkles is real. That means so am I.
Frankenstein: I was on the wrong side of the pitchfork on this one.
Jerry: Okay, look, we shouldn't need evidence or logic to know who's family and who isn't. I know who the Smiths are. I've known Beth since high school. And her husband, Sleepy Gary, is hands down my absolute best friend.
Sleepy Gary: Thanks, Jerry. Beyond that, no offense to any of you, but all bets are off.
Rick: Look, I'm not used to being this unsure for this long. I'm just gonna aim for shoulders starting with the weird girl.
Summer: Aah! Grandpa Rick!
Rick:  Hold still, "Summer."
Gary: Rick, that is my daughter.
Rick: Oh, yeah? Well, what if you just think that, Sleepy Gary? I've known you for 15 years. Don't make me hurt you.
Sleepy Gary: Rick, these are our family and friends, the people we barbecue with. Have you forgotten the barbecue?
Rick: Wait, why would you want me to -- You're one of them, aren't you?
Hamurai: Rick, you love those barbecues, Rick. You love them. Hai!
Amish Cyborg: Remember it, Rick?
Rick: Shut up, Hamurai! Shut up, Amish Cyborg! What is this? '90s Conan?
All: Remember the barbecue. Remember the barbecue. Remember the barbecue.
Rick: You know what, Pencilvester? It took me my whole life to realize it, but I love barbecuing.
Pencilvester: You're good at it, Rick.
Rick: Watch me, baby. I'm like Tom Cruise from, um, "Cuisine" or w-whatever that movie's called where he makes drinks. Yeah, check me out. I'm like Tom Cruise from "Cuisine."  Yeah. Is that what it's called? "Cuisine"?
Pencilvester: Wow! Hey, everybody. Let's give it up for the grill master, Rick! Rick! Rick! Rick!
Rick: Wait.  Noooooo! Shoot. Now look. It's like a "Where's Waldo?" page. Can you find me? Check out all these zany characters. We'll be right back after these messages.
Sleepy Gary: I think you should put down the gun and we should get you to a doctor. What do you say we take down these blast shields?
All: Yeah.
Rick: Can't do that, Sleepy Gary. All right, everybody listen to me. I don't know if any of you guys are real, but this house has been infested with fake loved ones that spread through fake memories, and our planet will be destroyed if they get out.
Pencilvester: But Rick, even you have to admit you do tend to overreact to stuff.
Rick: You guys, we got to hurry. I just got back from Walmart. They're selling Nintendo 3ds systems for $149.99 on sale, plus every time you buy one, you get a $50 gift card. Brings the total price down to $110 after tax. Now, listen, we can flip those sons of bitches for 230 bucks apiece easy! They're all limited-edition "Zelda" ones. Hurry! Hurry! Come with me! We can be rich, and we also all get to keep one and we can play Nintendo games! Nintendo, give me free stuff.
Rick: Okay, yes, I definitely remember doing that, but also, I would never do that.
Pencilvester: Don't overreact, Rick.
Jerry: Sleepy Gary, a word?
Sleepy Gary: Sure, Jerry. Rick, keep a level head, okay? 'Cause I'll tell you a secret about Frankenstein -- He's actually Frankenstein's monster.
Jerry: Sleepy Gary, m-my head is filled with memories of our friendship. I'm convinced that you're Beth's husband and I'm your friend, but if those memories can't be trusted, then...
Sleepy Gary: Jerry, just say it.
Jerry: Sleepy Gary, how do we know I'm real?
Sleepy Gary: Jesus, Jerry. No, you're real. Hey, look at me. Now, I don't know which way is up out there, but I know us, and you're real, Jerry. Remember our vacation?
Gary: They're filming that new Star Wars movie down the coast. Should we check it out?
Jerry: Sure. Why not?
Gary: Maybe we'll see Chewbacca.
Jerry: I'd like that.
Jerry: What are we doing?
Gerry: I don't give a damn what else happens out there. You and I are going to survive this.
Jerry: Okay. Hey, we agreed. Never in the house.
Frankenstein: That's a cool watch there, Rick. Can I check it out?
Rick: Uh, no thank --  Okay. Trying to figure out how to lower the blast shields, huh? Anybody here think it's suspicious that a lot of people in here can't wait to get out of here?
Frankenstein: Ah, you're paranoid, Rick. You've been paranoid since 'nam.
Rick: So, what are you gonna do when you rotate back to the world, Frankenstein?
Frankenstein: Shi-i-i-i-t. I'mma bust a --
Rick: No! Get out of my head, parasite! No! Drop it. Give me the gun, Frankenstein!  Give it back!
All: Yeah!  Frankenstein!
Rick:  Is anyone here even real? Am I the only real person on earth?!
Reverse Giraffe: Maybe. Or maybe, just maybe, we're all real. You know me. I'm reverse giraffe. I have a short neck and legs. I went to college with Hamurai.
Hamurai: Hai!
Reverse Giraffe: I saved Ghost In A Jar's life in Vietnam.
Ghost in a Jar: Boo rah!
Reverse Giraffe: And Beth, how many times have I been a shoulder for you to cry on?
Beth:  Too many.
Reverse Giraffe: Okay, so maybe we're just all fake.
Mrs. Refrigerator: That don't make no sense!
Reverse: Giraffe: Or maybe, there's only one deceiver here -- The person that keeps telling us the path to salvation is being held prisoner and mistrusting each other.
Rick: Hey, don't blame me! I tried to shoot Summer 10 minutes ago!
Reverse Giraffe: I know we all have beloved memories of Rick, but are we really supposed to believe that a mad scientist inventor with a flying car just showed up on our doorstep after being gone for years?
Morty: Yeah, you know, he does have a lot of really weird, made-up sounding catchphrases.
Rick: Wubba lubba dub dub! Ricky ticky tavi, beyotch! And that's the wa-a-a-a-y the news goes. Hit the sack, jack. Uh-oh! Somersault jump. Aids! And that's why I always say shum shum shlippedy dop! Grassss tastes bad-ah. No jumpin' in the sewer. Burger time! Rubber baby baby bunkers! Lick, lick, lick my balls!  yeah! Say that all the time.
All:  That's a fake-ass catchphrase right there.
Beth: And don't forget his incredibly vague back story.
Rick: Beth, I'm your father!
Beth: Oh, are you, dad? Are you?
Morty: Rick, if you want to prove you're real, just do what any of the rest of us would do and -- and -- and open the blast shields and let us the hell out of here!
Rick: Why don't you make me, implausibly naive pubescent boy with an old Jewish comedy writer's name?
Mrs. Refrigerator: In your face!
Morty: Give me the gun.  I'm not doing this in front of Pencilvester. Bring him to the garage.  All right, you listen to me, you son of a bitch parasite scum. We could either do this the easy way or the hard way. You know, y-y-y-- do you want to live? Then open the blast shield doors.
Rick: Shut up, Morty, you brainwashed, little turd that might not even be real because I'm brainwashed, too.
Morty: You know, Rick, this isn't easy for us. You know, w-we all remember you as a friend.
Rick: Oh, oh, oh, really? Well, I remember you as a whiny, little piece of shit, Morty!
Morty: Oh -- oh, yeah?
Rick: Yeah! I've got about a thousand memories of your dumb little ass and about six of them are pleasant. The rest is annoying garbage. So why don't you do us both a favor and pull the trigger? Do it! Do it, motherfucker! Pull the fucking trigger!
Duck with Muscles: Oh, wow. Baby Wizard was a parasite? He set me up with my wife.
Rick: What the hell?
Morty: I figured it out, Rick! The parasites can only create pleasant memories. I know you're real because I have a ton of bad memories with you!
♪ these memories that we have ♪ ♪ these memories that we cherish ♪ ♪ I wish that we... can go back... to that time ♪ ♪ ooh, ooh, ooh ♪
Rick: Holy crap, Morty, you're right.
Morty: Is -- is -- isn't that what you were trying to make me understand by yelling at me?
Rick: Well, yeah, duh-doy. T-took you long enough.
Rick: Now let's go, Morty. We got a lot of friends and family to exterminate.
Morty: Everybody remain calm! This is gonna take some explaining.
Rick: We need to kill everyone that we can only remember fondly. Who's got a bad memory about Mrs. Refrigerator?
Mrs Refrigerator: I-I-I-I -- everyone has bad memories of me. You remember that one time?  Ooh, man, we couldn't stop screaming.
Beth: Uh, roller coasters aren't bad, Mrs. Refrigerator. They're thrilling. And you've been a perfect companion to me my entire life.
Mrs Refrigerator: The jig is up!  get me out of here. Get me out of here! Aah!   Oh, shit!
Rick: Everybody back! If you're not a parasite, you have nothing to fear. What about Summer?
Summer: Why am I always your go-to?
Summer: Never go in my room again.
Morty: I didn't!
Morty: She's real. She's my bitch of a sister.
Summer: Nice.
Summer: Mom, are you driving me to --
Beth: Hmm? Yeah, yeah, yes. What time?
Summer: Oh, my god. Are you drunk?
Beth:   What're you, my life coach?
Summer: Your what?
Summer: Oh! God! Oh. Oh, my gosh. Oh! God! Mom!
Beth: Sweetheart, are you okay? I didn't mean to --
Summer: I'm gonna have a bruise! It's picture day!
Beth: It's not, don't overreact. I can clean it up.
Summer:  I want the police to take me!
Summer: Morty, give a gun to the lady that got pregnant with me too early and constantly makes it our problem.
Beth: Thank you, sweetie.
Cross Teddy Bear: Beth, Beth, please!
Beth: I thought it was too good to be true that we'd have compatible kidneys.
Rick:  Come on, man. Haven't we ever had an uncomfortable silence or an awkward fart on a road trip? Come on, Pencilvester. Give me anything.
Pencilvester: Rick, I'm Pencilvester. Listen to that name. You can't kill me.
Rick: You're right.  Kill Pencilvester.
Tinkles: Summer, I've always loved you!
Summer: Yep.
Summer: Oh, my god!
Morty: I-I-I thought you went to a concert!
Summer: We forgot the tickets! Why in the kitchen?!
Morty: I do it everywhere! Stop shaming me!
Summer: You're not the victim here!
Morty: I hate you, and I was thinking about your friend Grace!
Summer: Aaaaaah!
Mr. Beauregard: Ah. Master Rick. Remember when you weren't going to shoot me?
Rick: I guess I did the butler! Ha ha! Does -- d-does that scan?
Ghost in a Jar: Oh, I-I get it. It's a play on "the butler did it."
Rick: Thanks, ghost in a jar. You always were good at pointing out potentially obscure comedy.
Jerry: You got to hide me, Sleepy Gary.
Sleepy Gary: Don't worry. I have a plan. If we can get to my boat, there's a --
Jerry: No. No! Send me to Gary. I want to be with Gary.
Beth: Whoa. What the hell?
Jerry: Look out for that homeless guy!
Beth: Open the door! Open the door! Open the door!
Jerry: There isn't time! Just run!
Beth:  Get out here and help me!
Jerry: They say you shouldn't do that! Just run!
Beth: Ugh. Sorry, Jerry. You're real.
Jerry:  I'm a parasite!
Beth: Yeah, but you're real.
Jerry:
Beth: Uh, uh, I need time to forget about Sleepy Gary.
Jerry: Me, too.
Rick: From now on, let's all be careful to wash our hands when we get back from outer space. That goes for everyone.
Jerry: This is depressing. We killed every good person in the house. We're what's left? What a family.
Rick: At least we're real, Jerry. We're real. Rikki tikki tavi!
Mr. Poopybutthole: Ooh, whee! Amen to that. Now, this little poopypants is hungry. Will somebody pass me a pork chop?
Mr. Poopybutthole: Huh. I-is -- is something wrong, Beth?
Rick: No, Beth!
Mr. Poopybutthole: Oh, fuck.
Beth: Wait, but I --
Mr. Poopybutthole: Oh, Beth! Why?!
Jerry: I need an ambulance! There's been a shooting. My wife shot... Uh, my -- my wife shot a long-time family friend.
Mr. Poopybutthole: Why?
Summer: Oh, my god, oh, my god, oh, my god, Mr. Poopybutthole.
Beth: I-I thought --
Morty: Keep breathing!
Mr. Poopybutthole: Oh, god. What's happening?
Morty: Look at me! Look at me! Don't -- don't fall asleep!
Mr. Poopybutthole: Is -- is this what bleeding to death is? Oh, whee. Is this how I die?
Rick: Oh, geez! Oh, my god!
Mr. Poopybutthole: Why would you do this? Beth. It's not supposed to hurt. I-I thought...  Ooh, whee.
Beth: Oh, he -- he's looking a lot better.
Rick: Listen, Beth, don't torture yourself. I made a similar mistake years ago, but, you know, on a planetary scale.
Beth: Is, um, is he mad at me?
Rick: He's not pressing charges. I mean, that's got to be the "you shot me" equivalent of not being mad.
Beth: Can he have visitors?
Doctor: He'd like to be alone. He told me to tell you he's sorry you didn't have bad memories of him? If you love him, you should leave.
Rick:  And that's the wa-a-a-a-y the news goes.
Man: Hey, golf is easy now!
Man: Aahh! Golf is hard again! Golf is hard agaaaaaaain!
Terry: The view here is the same as yours, Jim. A giant head has entered Earth’s gravity, triggering climate change and natural disasters we thought were impossible for at least another eight years.
Jim:  Let’s not make this political, Terry. Do we know what this giant head wants?
Giant Head: SHOW ME WHAT YOU GOT.
Terry: Jim, you heard *static* said, “Show me what you got.”
Giant Head: SHOW ME WHAT YOU GOT. I WANT TO SEE WHAT YOU GOT.
Rick: Oh boy. Time to go, Morty.
Morty: Uhh, where?
Rick: The Pentagon. I mean, not THE Pentagon. *burp* The lame one, here on Earth.
Summer: Is it God? If it’s God, do we get out of school?
Beth: It’s not God, Summer.
Jerry: She’s allowed to think it’s God if she wants, honey!
Beth: Shut up, Jerry.
Jerry: Ok…
Beth: Dad, what do you know about this?
Rick: Morty and I are going to look into it. You guys hold tight.
Mr. Goldenfold: Scary stuff, huh? Pretty freaky. Hi, I’m Morty’s math teacher. I’m also part of the street team inviting folks to the church downtown so we can pray together.
Beth: How is praying going to help?
Mr. Goldenfold: Ma’am, a giant head in the sky is controlling the weather. Did you wanna play checkers? Let’s be rational! I’ll see you at God’s house!
President: Gentlemen, gentlemen, one at a time! Simon?
Simon: SETI, NORAD, and every broadcaster on the planet are attempting to show this being what humanity’s got. String theory, world history, the human genome.
Nathan: Have you tried sending it launch codes? Mr. President, what America’s got is 70,000 megatons of KABOOM-BOOM! And I say we show it right up this floating head’s ass!
Guards: Hold it! Don’t move!
Rick: Stay back! This watch turns people into snakes!
President: Stand down. Everybody stand down! I’m the leader of these people and I’m unarmed. There’s no need for any more snake-makery.
Rick: My name is Rick Sanchez. This here’s my grandson Morty.
Everyone: Hi, Morty.
Morty: Hey.
Rick: I’ve seen enough of the galaxy to know that what we’ve got here is a Cromulon from the Cygnus-5 Expanse. So you can forget about nukes, and you can forget about math.  This head won’t go away until *burp* Earth shows them it’s got a hit song.
Everyone: Seriously, that’s impossible, etc…
Simon: You mean like Vivaldi?
Rick: No, Frasier. A live performance of a newly-written, catchy, original song. The Cromulon feed on the talent and showmanship of less-evolved lifeforms.
President: All right, all right. Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Change of plan, people. Get me Pharrell, Randy Newman, Billy Corgan, and The-Dream.  The-Dream? He wrote “Umbrella” and “Single Ladies”? You people haven’t heard of The-Dream?
Rick: You’re gonna wanna put them on that giant speaker system at your sonic testing facility at Area 51.
Nathan: How do you know about that?
President: For God’s sake, Nathan, the man turns people into snakes. He can use Google Maps.
Aide: Sir! Pharrell, Newman, Corgan, and that Dream guy. They’re all dead.
President: What? How is that possible? Do people just die when I name them?
Aide: The Grammys, sir. There was an earthquake and all the musicians...  All the famous ones, they’re gone.
President: Dear God.
Aide: Hold on, sir, just a minute. Ice-T survived. He’s inbound on an F-15, ETA two hours.
Rick: Good luck, Mr. President.
Simon: Sir, the magnetic poles are about to reverse. In two hours, there may not be an Earth to save.
President: Sanchez! Are you a musician?
Rick: I dabble, Mr. President.
President: Get this man and his grandson on a Blackhawk to Area 51.
Father Bob: People! Everyone! Remain calm! Every crisis of faith is an opportunity for more faith! When God deals you an 11, you don’t fold! You double down, and always hit on a soft 16. That means you, Jews.
Jew: I beg your pardon, pastor, but the last I looked outside, it seems to be you that’s been dealt the weak hand. Jews rule!  Nobody? Ok, tough church.
Principal Vagina: Hi, Principal Vagina. The name’s real, possibly Scandinavian. I’m just gonna come out and make this pitch. The old gods are dead. Fuck all previous existing religions. All hail the one true god, the giant head in the sky.
Principal Vagina: Ah, di di di di.  Bob, Bob, I get it. But unless this  can beat that… what have you done for me lately?  So if you wanna excuse me, I’m going out on the sidewalk and dropping to my knees and pledging my eternal soul to the thing that literally controls the fucking weather!  Outta my way!
Pastor Bob: Ok, if sanity’s been restored to this assembly, I’d like to talk about the cost of repairing our new organ. Sally, the plate, please.
Mr. Goldenfold:  Ohhhh, this is my favorite part!
Morty: Rick, are you really a musician?
Rick: Who’s NOT a musician, Morty?
Morty: Me!
Rick: Yeah, not with that attitude.
Jump Master: We’re in the drop zone! I’m the jump master! My name’s Jamey! With an E-Y! Go, go, go!
Morty: B-b-but we don’t have a song!
Principal Vagina: Giant head in the sky, please forgive all that we’ve done. We’re sorry for increased levels of emissions and our racism. And of course, the amber alerts I keep ignoring on my phone.
Rick and Morty: WhooooOOOOAHHHH!!!!
Rick:  All right, Morty, let’s get ready to do it! Why don’t you, uh, find a button on one of those keyboards and lay down some kind of beat?
Morty: Rick, I think we need to cut our losses. We get our family and portal out of here!
Rick: Morty! Good music comes from people who are relaxed. Just hit a button, Morty! Gimme a beat!
Morty: Oh man, ok, all right, um…
Rick: Ahhhhh yeahhhhh
Ya gotta get schwifty
Ya gotta get schwifty in here
It’s time to get schwifty
Nathan: Get… schwifty? What the hell is that?
President: It’s our world’s best effort, that’s what.
Rick: Take off your pants and your panties
Shit on the floor
Time to get schwifty in here
I’m Mr. Bulldops
Nathan: Mr. Bulldops?
President: Don’t analyze it, Nathan. It’s working!
Rick: Take a shit on the floor
Time to get schwifty in here
Pastor Bob: And third-level donors get our all access family pass.
Summer: Listen! The storm is stopping!
Rick: Hey, take your pants off
It’s schwifty time today
Giant Head: Hmmmm.
Principal Vagina: Please be kind to us for we are but tiny things with entire bodies stuck to your ground.
Giant Head: I LIKE WHAT YOU GOT. GOOD JOB.
Beth: Now hold on a second, let’s be rational about this.
Beth: No, I’m… I’m just saying, we don’t know if there’s a cause-effect relationship --
Beth: Oh, God, what’s going on now?
President: What the hell happened?
Aide: Mr. President, you’re gonna wanna see this.
Rick: I think planet Earth has just been transported.
Principal Vagina: The head has left and sent its children!
Beth: Holy CRAP!
Summer: Oh dear giant head, we apologize for that discussion! It will never happen again!
Simon: Sir, we’ve started picking up on a garbled signal. We’re decrypting it now.
Cromulon: WE ASKED THEM TO SHOW US WHAT THEY GOT. AND THEY DID. NOW WE’LL SEE WHICH OF THEM HAS GOT THE MOST. 24 HOURS, FIVE PLANETS, FIVE SONGS. BUT IN THE END, THERE CAN ONLY BE ONE. PLANET MUSIC! All participation is involuntary. Disqualified and losing planets are disintegrated by plasma ray.
Rick: Uhh, it’s probably a bad time to mention it, but any astronauts you guys had in orbit are definitely dead.
ACT 2
Cromulon: Welcome back to Planet Music! First up, let’s hear the latest song from planet Parblesnops. The Greebybobes! SHOW ME WHAT YOU GOT.
Greebybobe: Hold it, hold it, stop! Music isn’t about competition or captivity! If you love music, you love freedom. Let these worlds be free, please!
Cromulon: DISQUALIFIED!
Cromulon: There’s one every season. Moving on to planet Arbolez Meterosos. Arbolian Meterososians. SHOW US WHAT YOU GOT.
Arbolian Meterososian: Ah two, three, four…
Aide: Rick, Morty, Ice-T. The timetable’s moved up. Earth’s on in six hours.
Morty: Like we’re not already under enough pressure!
Rick and Ice-T: Whoa ho ho ho ho!
Rick: Geez, Morty. The guy’s just doing his job. Take it easy.
Morty: Rick, Ice-T, could you guys take it less easy?! We’ve got six hours to come up with a song!
Rick: Genius happens in the moment, Morty.
Morty: Well, can we at least go get our family? You know, so we can take them with-with-with us if we lose?
Rick: That’s planning for failure, Morty. Even dumber than regular planning.  Balls.
Rick: Morty, Morty, stop! Listen! There’s only so much charge left in this thing. If we portal home from here and back, we’re not gonna have enough charge left to get off-world. Get it?
Morty: What?!
Rick: Yeah, *burp* you see, I try to shelter you from certain realities, *burp* Morty. Cause if I let you make me nervous, then we can’t get schwifty.
Morty: Stop saying it like it’s a thing! You made it up!
Rick: Hey, Morty! Could you lick my…
Morty: Rick, cut it out! That’s not funny, Rick!
Nathan: I’ve seen enough. These guys are one-hit wonders.
President: And what’s your plan, General?
Nathan: We still have the nuclear option. On my word, we can launch a nuclear missile at every one of those heads in the sky.
President: Our planet’s held captive on a live game show and your solution is to shoot the audience? You can put your faith in nukes if we get through this, General. Until then, I’ll put mine in Rick and Morty. “Get Schwifty” was a jam.
Principal Vagina: Hello? Yes sir, yeah. Thank you sir, thank you. He says he’s proud of what we’re doing and hopes we have a great Ascension Festival! Happy Ascension!
All: Happy Ascension!
Beth: We should pack up and leave town now.
Jerry: I think it’s inspiring that our community is coping with fear in a way that involves a festival and homemade ice cream. If you’d stop being such an evangelical atheist, you might start enjoying yourself.
Jerry: Whoa! Look at you! You’re wearing the hat and everything!
Summer: Here’s yours!  Mom, do you mind if I cook dinner tonight?
Beth: Yeah, sure. Wait, what??
Summer: I love you guys. You gave me life. And it’s the will of the many heads that all children honor their parents.
Beth: Dinner sounds nice.
Ethan: Pardon, Mr. and Mrs. Smith. Summer, are you coming to the Ascension?
Summer: Father, can we please go to the Ascension?
Jerry: Sure! Let’s go to the Ascension. Wh-wh-what is it?
Principal Vagina: We hereby send these un-wantables skyward that they might be inhaled by the many heads, later to be sneezed back to us as better babies!  Headward, free now to rise.  Headward, free now to rise.  Headward, free now to rise.
Summer: Oh yes, yes! Rise to the giant head! You are free to be free!
Ice-T: A squeegee comes up from the garage, right? And he’s got a lobster in one hand and movie tickets in the other. He’s like, “I’m ready!”
Ice-T: Who would take a lobster to see Iron Man 3?
Ice-T: Aw, damn. We’re out of original flavor Fig Newtons. I should get going anyway.
Rick: Wait, wait, wait! Come on, h-hold on a second!
Morty: What?!
Ice-T: Damn. You didn’t tell me you fuck around with portals and shit.
Morty: That’s it!
Rick: Whoa, whoa! Morty! Give me that!
Morty: You lied! You lied about the charge! You were just being lazy! Get back! Sit down!
Rick: Morty, just put it down. You don’t know what you’re doing.
Morty: I’m going to go find Mom and Dad.
Rick: Nooooo!
Rick: Ahhhh, shit!
President: Ah, shit.
Morty: Ahhh, shit.
Summer: And then Ethan played guitar and we learned the Seven Contemplations of the Head by singing them. It was really fun. Praise be the head!
Jerry and Beth: Praise be the…
Jerry: Yeah.
Principal Vagina: Hi folks, Head Priest Vagina. Thanks for farming all those potatoes. It’s 6 p.m., so if you’re a parent, you’re now entitled to adoration from your children.
Summer: I’m going to start dinner!
Beth: I don’t know what to say. Summer is doing really well here.
Jerry: She’s aced every test in potato class, and look how important potatoes have become.
Beth: She’s not getting pregnant or doing drugs or missing curfew…
Balloon Man: Please help me! You can reach me if you try. Please help me!!
Beth: That’s not our business as long as Summer is thriving!
Summer: Taco time!  I hope it pleases you as the head desires.
Beth: That’s wonderful, Summer!
Jerry: We’re so proud of you. But honestly, you don’t have to make dinner every night.
Summer: Of course I do, silly!  Oh my God, daddy, I’m sorry I called you silly! I’m so sorry!  Heavenly head and cranial creator! Forgive my transgressions against family and community! May my chores complete me as I complete them!
Birdperson: Morty.
Morty: Birdperson?
Birdperson: You appear to be dying. I will make efforts to prevent this, but can promise nothing.
Rick: Wh-What do you think, Ice? Probably a little over-developed.
Ice-T: Shit. Over-developed, under-developed. Bad songs are bad songs.
Rick: Well, do you think maybe, could you give me some help with it, or… ?
Ice-T: Ah, hell no, man. You do your thing, but I can’t afford to get my pride wrapped up in your shame. You know what I’m sayin’?
Rick: Ice, I don’t want to be a negative Nelly or anything, but *burp* if Morty doesn’t come back with my portal gun and I eat it out there, it’s, uh, kind of your problem too.
Ice-T: Pfff. I ain’t worried about no Earth blowin’ up, man.
Rick: What? Why not?
Ice-T: Yo, this is why.
Rick: What the fuck? You can turn into ice?
Ice-T: My story begins at the dawn of time in the far away realm of Alphabetrium. There, every being is a letter of the alphabet. But I was frozen and exiled to the cosmos by my elders as punishment for not caring enough about anything. Earth is just one of the many stops on my lifelong journey with no destination. So you better believe I don’t care if it blows up! Cause I’ll just be ice, floatin’ through space, like a comet!
Rick: Take it from me, Ice. *burp* You can’t just *burp* float around space not caring about stuff forever.
Ice-T: Pshhhh. Man, watch me. Good luck, Rick.
President: Ok, things are getting out of hand. I better make sure Rick has everything he needs to “get schwifty.”
Nathan: Oh, for God’s sake, that’s enough.
President: What the hell are you doing, Nathan? I’m the goddamn President of the United fuckin’ States!
Nathan: I’m setting the nuclear option to launch one minute into Earth’s performance. And you, Mr. President, I hope you like being hit in the face with a gun!
President: Wait, wait, wait, why-why --
Birdperson: I believe I can access the history of Rick’s gun and help you get back to him.
Morty: But can you help me get to my family? You know, at my house?
Birdperson: Is your intention to abandon Rick using his own portal gun? In bird culture, this is considered a dick move.
Morty: All of Rick’s moves are dick moves! Wh-what am I eating? What is this, bird seed?
Birdperson: It is random debris. I found it in my carpet. I don’t know what humans eat.
Tammy: You know what THIS human eats!
Birdperson: Don’t be gross, Tammy.
Tammy:  Bird… dick.
Morty: Tammy… gross. Birdperson, you always stick up for Rick, but he doesn’t care about anyone but himself. He doesn’t think about the consequences of anything he does.
Birdperson: And as a result, he has the power to save or destroy entire worlds. And he is the reason you and I know each other. And the reason I’m alive at all.
Morty: What’s that? Who’s that baby?
Birdperson: Morty, suppose you could retrieve your family from Earth but had to abandon Rick. I could give your loved ones shelter on Birdworld, even jobs, possibly as worm ranchers. How often do you think you might look up at the stars and wonder what might have been had you just put your faith in Rick?
Cromulon: That was Chunky Tunk with “Full Ming Mong, Empty Gorp Dorp.” Up next, planet Earth!
Morty: Oh God! We’re up?!?!
Principal Vagina: Jerry and Beth, your family is a golden example of what Headism has to offer the world.
Beth: The world?
Principal Vagina: Headism is a hit. We’re taking it worldwide and would like Jerry to be our church’s “Head” of Advertising.
Jerry: You… would?
Principal Vagina: Beth, we’d like to promote you from horse surgeon, straight past human surgeon, to “Head” of Medicine.
Beth: That’s my dream! That’s my dream.
Jerry: Thank you. This is all so overwhelming, but, uh… we can’t.
Beth: Absolutely not.
Principal Vagina: I’m sorry?
Beth: We’ve been waiting 16 years for our daughter to respect us, but the key is, it has to be “our” daughter, not this person she’s become.
Jerry: We’ll take our chances raising her without fancy new jobs outside of a potato-based religion.  And you know what? I’m sick of pretending that we’re together because of the kids in the first place! I married you because you’re the love of my life!
Beth:  And I‘m lucky to have you and I never tell you that! You know, we will come out of this stronger as a family!
Beth: Please don’t do this, please don’t do this! Summer!
Jerry: Summer, listen carefully. I stole a paper clip and I have it in my cheek but I don’t know what to do with it and it hurts.
Summer: You’re going to be ok!  You will come back as babies!
Jerry: I AM a baby! I’m a baby NOW!
Morty: Hello? Is anybody here?  Mr. President!
President: This is Bluebird. Code tango-niner-alpha. Abort launch. Abort! Hello?  He’s blocked me out.
Morty: Sir, I need to get to the stage and help Rick get schwifty!
President: It won’t matter how schwifty you get, Morty. The General’s got nukes set to launch halfway through Earth’s song!
Morty: Oh my God! C-c-can you fly a Blackhawk?
President: Can the Pope’s dick fit through a donut?
Morty: Uhhh, I’m not sure?
President: Exactly!
Cromulon: SHOW ME WHAT YOU GOT.
Rick: Ahem.  Uhhh… lop-oo-lop-oo-lop-oo-dups, nop-oo-nop-oo-nop-oo-nuts.
Principal Vagina: Headward free now to rise!
Mr. Goldenfold: Hey! Look at the heads! Looks like the heads are gettin’ angry!
President: I’m really bad at this, Morty! There are way too many buttons on this thing!
Morty: Mr. President, if I’ve learned one thing today, it’s that sometimes, you have to not give a fuck!
Rick: Nup-oo-nup-oo-nup-oo-nups… ooh, tough crowd.
Principal Vagina: I’m sure that has… that has nothing to do with this.
Summer: The heads are displeased!
Ethan: Summer!
Rick: Morty!
Mr. Goldenfold: The heads love this! They love it when we DON’T kill the Smith family!
Principal Vagina: No! Stop that! You’re not allowed to interpret the will of the heads!
President: Call off the nuclear strike! This is the President. Stop the nuclear missile launch!
Nathan: Just launch the missiles!
Cromulon: BOO! NOT COOL!
Principal Vagina: I’m the only one that speaks to the heads!
Cromulon: DISQUALIFIED!
Mr. Goldenfold: The heads disqualified Vagina! Get him!
Cromulon: DISQUALIFIED! DISQUALIFIED!
All: Ice-T?
Ice-T: That’s right, it’s me, Ice-T! I care now! You made me care more! With all due respect, I’d like to hear what Rick and Morty have to play.
Morty: What do you say, Rick?
Rick: I say…  Let’s do it!
Rick: All right!
Morty: Ohhhh yeahhhh!
Rick: Come on, here we go!
Morty: Ohhhh yeahhhh!
Rick: Say it with me!
All: Head bent over
Raised up posterior
Head bent over
Raised up posterior
Principal Vagina: Ohhh my GOOOOODDDD!!!
All: Head bent over
Raised up posterior
Head bent over
Cromulon: After 988 seasons of Planet Music, the Cromulons have decided to declare Earth the final winner and bring our musical reality show to a conclusion. Goodbye!
All: Yeah, we did it!
Mr. Goldenfold: Did he just say “musical reality show”?
Jerry: Yeah, it’s possible that we may have been correlating some things that weren’t actually related at all.
Principal Vagina: HEEEEELLLLPPPP!!!!!
Beth: We should go get him.
President: I hope I can call on you again if we need you, Morty.
Morty: Sure thing! And I was kinda hoping that I could get a selfie with you?
President: Actually, if you try to tell anyone what happened here, we’ll deny it and probably worse.
Morty: Understood.
Nathan: DIIIIEEEE!!!!
President: Why didn’t he turn into a snake?
Rick: Trade secret, Mr. President. Particle beam in a wristwatch… snake holster on the leg.
President: I love this man!
Ice-T: Magnesium-J, Hydrogen-F. Father.
Magnesium-J: Word of your selfless acts on the Earth planet have travelled across the galaxy.
Ice-T: I have changed. I am ready to rejoin my brethren on Alphabetrium.
Magnesium-J: Very well. Your exile ends today!
Magnesium-J: Welcome home... Water-T.
Purple-P: The Numbericons! They’re attacking!
Magnesium-J: Battle stations!
Water-T: Father!
Magma-Q: I love you son. I should have never turned you to ice.
Magnesium-J: Water-T, where are you going? There’s too many of them!
Water-T: Then I better crunch the numbers.
walking away from Egan Cinema
Morty: Geez, I can't believe we found a version of Earth with a Ball Fondlers movie franchise.
Summer: I can't believe the things this reality considers PG-13
Morty: Yeah, I'm pretty jealous.
Rick: Don't be Morty, there are pros and cons to every reality, fun facts about this one; it's got giant telepathic spiders, eleven 9/11's, aaaand the best ice cream in the multiverse!
Summer: Shut up! Morty: W-whoa!
Rick: We're gonna go get some ice-cream motherfuckers!
Car does not start.
Rick: Oh great.
Morty: Oh boy. W-what's wrong Rick, is it the quantum carburettor or something?
Rick: Quantum carburettor? Jesus Morty; you can't just add a sci fi word to a car word and hope it means something. Huh, it looks like something's wrong with the microverse battery - we're going to have to go inside.
Morty: Uhm. Go inside what?
Rick: The battery Morty. Be right back Summer; stay put, don't touch any buttons, and ignore all random thoughts that feel -- spider-y.
Summer: Wait! You can't leave me here!
Rick: You'll be fine. Ship, keep Summer safe.
Ship: Keep. Summer. Safe.
Summer: Egh, wonderful.
Man with scar across his face and a ponytail approaches the car.
Man: Hey, excuse me, hello?
Summer: Uhmm...
Man: What you think you're better than me? Nobody's better than me! Ey! ey!
He is banging on the ship's window; the ship extends an arm from the back and cuts him into cubes with a laser.
Summer: Agh! Aghaaaa!
Ship: Keep. Summer. Safe.
Thinner Man: Hey man, what the hell! That was my daughter's paediatrician! Uagha!
The ship lifts him off the ground with an arm and prepares to kill him with another laser.
Summer: No! Stop, don't kill him!
Ship beeps.
Ship: Confirmed.
Ship fires a single red laser into his back, and drops him to the ground
Thinner Man: Uaghuu. Ugh. Uh. Oh God! I can't feel my legs! Help! He-elp!
Ship: Summer is safe.
Summer curls into fetal position and starts crying
Summer: I don't feel safe.
Ship: Confirmed.
ship reclines chair and begins playing soothing music.
the now paralysed man bangs on the door while crying.
Thinner Man: Oh God help me! Help me! help me please! You can help me.
//intro plays
Morty: Oh man. Where are we Rick?
Rick: Morty, remember eight seconds ago when -burp- when you said 'go inside what' and I said 'the battery' and then we showed up here?
Rick: Morty, remember eight seconds ago when  when you said, "Go inside what?" And I said, "The battery"? And then we showed up here, and I wasn't like, "Whoa, this is unexpected. This is not what I was expecting, Morty. What a perplexing mystery this is."
Morty: All right, all right. We're inside the battery. I get it. You don't have to bust my balls.
Rick: Huh, this isn't right. This pipe's supposed to be sending 20 terawatts of juice up to the engine, Morty.
Rick: Instead we've got... zero? Now what are these people doing?
Morty: W-w-w-whoa, people?
Rick: It's time for some hands-on engine repair.All right, Morty, hold on to something.
Morty: Whoa!
Morty: Holy crap! I thought we were inside your car battery, Rick. T-t-this is like a whole p-planet or something.
Rick: Thanks, Morty. I'm pretty proud of this bad boy. Check it out.
Rick: I put a spatially tessellated void inside a modified temporal field until a planet developed intelligent life. I then introduced that life to the wonders of electricity, which they now generate on a global scale. And, you know, some of it goes to power my engine and charge my phone and stuff.
Morty: You have a whole planet sitting around making your power for you? That's slavery.
Rick: It's society. They work for each other, Morty. They pay each other. They buy houses. They get married and make children that replace them when they get too old to make power.
Morty: That just sounds like slavery with extra steps.
Rick: Ooh-la-la, someone's gonna get laid in college.
Anchor: It appears we are being revisited by the alien known as Rick, who once gave our world the gift of gooble box technology, which, when stomped on, generates electricity, powering our homes and businesses, improving our daily lives, while safely removing the dangerous waste power to a special disposal volcano. But why has Rick returned? And what will he say when he hears the big news? Let's find out.
Morty: You need to tell these people they're in a battery, Rick. It's messed up. There's caterers down there. Th-th-they're setting up chafing dishes.
Rick: Would you relax, Morty? There's nothing dishonest about what we're doing. Now slap on these antennae. These people need to think we're aliens.
Morty: What? Why?
Rick: Obviously  you really  know nothing about car repair.
Rick: Wait for the ramp, Morty. They love the slow ramp. Really gets their dicks hard when they see this ramp just slowly extending down.
Rick: Greetings!
Rick: Morty, you got to flip them off. I told them it means "Peace among worlds." How hilarious is that?
Rick: Coming through. Two real aliens walking through here.
Mr.President: Rick, our alien friend.
Rick: Uh, Mr. President, um, couldn't help but notice that you were having problems generating power.
Mr.President: That's correct.  We've evolved. Our most brilliant scientist, Zeep Xanflorp, has developed a source of energy that makes gooble boxes obsolete.
Rick:  I would love to see it.
Mr.President: Fuck you.
Rick: What did you say to me?!
Mr.President: "Fuck you." Y-you told me it means "much obliged".
Rick: Oh. Right. Uh, b-blow me.
Mr.President: No, no, no. Blow me.
Mr.President: Zeep, you have an honored guest from beyond the stars.
Zeep: I said 12 quantum stabilizers, not 11. Fix it or it's your ass. Chris, I'm in the middle of something.
Mr.President: Zeep, is Rick-- The alien. Rick the alien. Rick the alien...
Rick: Really? You're gonna pull that move? I guided your entire civilization. Your people have a holiday named Ricksgiving. They teach kids about me in school.
Zeep: I dropped out of school. It's not a place for smart people.
Morty: Ohhhh, snap!
Rick: Listen to me, you arrogant little--
Mr.President:  R-Rick was hoping to see your new energy source. I think he could learn a lot from you, Zeep.
Zeep: Fine. It's hard for people to grasp, but inside that container is an infinite universe with a planet capable of generating massive amounts of power. I call it a miniverse.
Rick:  Dumb  name.
Zeep: Excuse me?
Rick:  Nothing. I mean, it's hard for us to comprehend all this. Would it be possible for us to get some kind of tour of your miniverse from the inside?
Zeep: This isn't a fucking chocolate factory. I don't have time.
Mr.President: Didn't you say time goes more slowly in the miniverse relative to the real world?
Zeep: Yes, Chris. Thanks for reminding me of that. Great president. All right, let's go.
Morty: Whoa-oh!
Zeep: Hold on to something. I put an unbounded vacuum inside a temporal field until a world developed. I then introduced the people of this world to the wonders of electricity in the form of a device I call a flooble crank.
Zeep: What they don't know is that 80% of every crank's energy output gets channeled out of the miniverse to be used by us. No more gooble boxes.
Rick: I got to tell you, Zeep, with no disrespect, I really think what you're doing here is unethical. It's not cool.
Morty: What?!
Rick: Y-y-you got the people on this world slaving away  making your power. I mean, that's what I call slavery.
Zeep: No, no, no, they work for each other in exchange for money, which they then--
Rick:  Well, that just sounds like slavery with extra steps.
Zeep: Eek barba dirkle, somebody's gonna get laid in college.
Morty: Rick, a word?
Morty: What the hell was that?
Rick: I know. "Eek barba dirkle"? That's a pretty fucked up "ooh-la-la".
Morty: No, what are you doing telling this guy that his miniverse is unethical? Do you not see the hypocrisy here?
Rick: Holy crap. You're right, Morty. Hypocrisy. Somewhere on this planet, there's got to be an arrogant scientist prick on the verge of microverse technology, which would threaten to make Zeep's flooble cranks obsolete, forcing Zeep to say microverses are bad, at which point he'll realize what a hypocrite he's being, his people will go back to stomping on their gooble boxes, and you and I will be on ice cream street, baby! Eating that motherfucking ice cream! Slurping, slurping, slurping it up.
Rick: Wh-wh-why are you making that face?
Morty: Holy shit!
Zeep: It's me. I've convinced the people of this planet that I'm a traveler from another world.
Rick: You don't think that's overdoing it a little? I mean, you could achieve the same effect with a pair of-- Never mind. You know what? I shouldn't be so critical. I'm an alien.
Zeep: Places, please. We're about to land.
Rick:  Too fast.
Summer:
Ship: Law enforcement converging on location. Keep Summer safe.
Summer: No! No, no! Don't hurt anybody!
Ship:  Confirm custom defense protocol-- Keep Summer safe-- No physical force.
Summer: Yes.
Ship: Processing.
Swat Officer 1: Come out of the vehicle with your hands in the air!
Ship: Scanning assailants.  Psychological option detected.  Gestating.
Summer: "Gestating"?
Swat Officer 1: Come out with your hands up, or we will be forced to open fire!
Swat Officer 1: Incoming!
Swat Officer 2: We got a device!
Swat Officer 1: Bomb! Bomb!
Kid: Daddy?
Swat Officer 1: Oh, my God.  Hunter?
Kid: Daddy?
Summer: What the hell?
Swat Officer 1:  Jesus Christ, cease fire! Stay back! H-h-hunter?
Kid: Daddy.
Swat Officer 1: Hunter!  Oh, my dear, sweet God, Hunter. Oh, my boy. My boy. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It was all my fault. I'm sorry.
Kid: Daddy, leave the car alone.
Swat Officer 1: W-w-w-what?
Kid:  Leave the car alone.
Swat Officer 1: Hunter?
Swat Officer 1: Don't--
Summer: Oh, my God.
Swat Officer 1: Stay here, Hunter! No!  God, no! Hunter!
Ship: All of you have loved ones. All can be returned. All can be taken away. Please step away from the vehicle. Keep Summer safe.
Zeep: And if you continue to turn your flooble cranks, I will bring you other great alien advancements.
Rick: Hey, uh, let me ask you something.
Teenyverse President: Yes?
Rick: Any of your, uh, scientists working on anything new?
Teenyverse President: All of them. That's their job.
Rick: Yeah, yeah, yeah. But I mean, like, energy-wise. Anyone working on, say, a little universe in a box?
Teenyverse President: How do you know about that? It's top secret.
Zeep: So remember-- a crank a day is not nearly enough.  Crank it. I told them this means "Peace among worlds". How hilarious is that?
Morty: Re-really funny, Zeep.
Rick: Hey, Zeep, the fake president of your fake world has something fake important to show you.
Kyle: It's not much now, but once I learn to accelerate the temporal field, I'll be able to interact with any sentient life that evolves and introduce them to the wonders of electricity via a pulley-based device I call a blooble yank. But what they won't know is--
Zeep: You'll be taking most of their energy. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I get it.
Rick:  It's show time.
Zeep: You do realize this will make the flooble crank obsolete? This is wrong, Kyle. What you're doing is wrong. You're basically-- This is slavery. You're talking about creating a planet of slaves.
Rick:  Told you, Zeep.
Kyle: Oh, they won't be slaves. They'll work for each other and pay each other money.
Zeep: That just sounds like slavery with ex... tra... steps.
Rick: What?
Zeep: Wait a minute. Did you create my universe? Is my universe a miniverse?
Rick: Microverse!
Kyle: Uh, teenyverse.
Rick: Ugh! You bastard!
Zeep: Much obliged.
Kyle: What the hell is happening?
Morty: This is healthy, trust me.
Rick: You're my battery, motherfucker.  That's all you are. I made you. Your microverse sucks! And your miniverse is the size of a fucking lobster tank! It's whack!
Kyle: Are they not really aliens?
Morty: Nah, they're just a couple of crazy, wacky scientists, you know?
Kyle: So he made a universe, and that guy is from that universe. And that guy made a universe. And that's the universe where I was born. Where my father died. Where I couldn't make time for his funeral because I was working on my universe.
Rick: I made you!
Morty:  Yeah. Science, huh? Ain't it a thing.
Morty: You know, one time, Rick sh-- accidentally shot his laser pistol right through my hand. You know, I mean, like, old-lady science, you know? She's a real-- You got to hang on tight, you know? Because she-- she'll-- She bucks pretty hard. Ooh, boy, what-- Oh, my God, no!
Rick, Zeep: Teenyverse.
Rick: Come on, come on, come on.
Rick: Pterodactyl!
Zeep:  Asshole! When I get out of this teenyverse, I'm gonna smash it to pieces with you in it.
Rick: Yeah, well, when I get out of this teenyverse, I'm gonna get out of the surrounding miniverse and then the microverse around that, and guess what?
Morty: Don't make things worse, Rick! Uh, he's not gonna destroy your universe. You know, we-- We need it to start our car.
Zeep: That's what you used my universe for? To run your car?
Rick: Yeah, but don't flatter yourself. There's always AAA, you fucking cocksucker!
Rick: What's he doing? What's he crafting? I can craft stuff, too, pal! Just like I crafted your reality!
Rick: You crafty son of a--
Zeep: Ow! I crafted the guy that created the planet you're standing on!
Rick: Yeah, and I made the stars that became the carbon in your mother's ovaries!
Zeep: I didn't ask to be born!
Morty: All right, that's it! I'm out. I-I'm gonna go into the wilderness, and I'm gonna make a new life for myself among the tree people. It can't be worse than this.
Rick: Sure. Okay, Morty. Just be back before sundown or the tree people will eat you.
Morty: That's a myth! W-w-why are you trying to start a myth?
Rick: It's a prehistoric planet, Morty. Someone has to bring a little culture. And it certainly can't be someone whose entire culture powers my brake lights!
Army General: Go, go, go!
Summer: Oh, my God. Oh, God. What are we going to do now?
Ship: I am unable to destroy this army. To clarify, I am quite able to destroy this army, but you will not permit it.
Summer: Correct.
Ship: You also refuse to authorize emotional countermeasures.
Summer: If you're talking about the melting ghost babies, yes, please, no more of that.
Ship:  Confirmed. I am currently constructing a security measure in compliance with your parameters. But I do want to say you are not making this easy.
Summer: You know you're kind of a dick, right?
Ship:My function is to keep Summer safe, not keep Summer being, like, totally stoked about, like, the general vibe and stuff. That's you. That's how you talk.
Rick: Hey, that's my deer!
Zeep: Aaaaaaah!
Rick: Raah!
Zeep: I hope your God is as big a dick as you.
Rick: My God's the biggest dick that's never existed. Why do you think I'm even here?
Zeep: You're here because you created someone smarter than you.
Rick: Oh, I thought we were both here because I created a universe of idiots.
Morty: Kalo kada sha la.
Rick: Holy shit. Morty? I haven't seen you in months. You're leading the tree people? Huh. That's a step up.
Morty: We have no leaders. We follow only the will of the forest.
Rick: Ooh. Wow. Gaaaaay.
Zeep: That is pretty gay.
Morty: You two call yourselves geniuses, but you have spent this time learning nothing. Come with me into the forest. There is something I wish to teach you.
Morty: This is Ku'ala, the spirit tree. For generations, it has guided the-- You have to get us the fuck out of here. These people are backwards savages. They eat every third baby because they think it makes fruit grow bigger. Everyone's gross, and they all smell like piss all the time. I m-- I miss my family. I miss my laptop. I masturbated to an extra-curvy piece of driftwood the other day!
Morty: Look, I don't care what it takes. You two are putting aside your bullshit, and you're working together to get us back home.
Rick: No can do, Morty. I just can't.
Zeep: I just don't see how I can--
Morty: Ro ro dah no gah! You're smart. You'll figure it out.
Army General: You have 10 seconds to get out of the ship! 10, 9...
Rick: All right, not bad.
Zeep: I guess you're an okay proto recombinator.
Rick: I've certainly seen worse ionic cell dioxination.
Zeep: If this works, drinks are on me.
Rick: If drinks are on you, you're gonna need a second mortgage on that tower. I'm an alcoholic.
Zeep: Opium addict.
Morty: All right, okay, okay, okay, wrap it up. You guys are the fucking worst! Your gods are a lie! Fuck you, fuck nature, and fuck trees!
Morty: Yes! You did it! Yes!
Rick: Hey, uh, how about that drink?
Zeep: Sure, I just need to go grab my wallet from inside my ship.
Rick: Is our wallet in your ship? That's where the transporter is, too, so why don't we come with?
Zeep: It's cool. I'll be back in a sec.
Rick: You know how long a second can take in a microverse?
Rick: Oh! Run, Morty! That asshole's willing to risk everything he cares about just to defeat me! He's psychotic!
Rick: Morty, hop on my back.
Morty: Why?
Rick: Go, go  Sanchez ski shoes.
Morty: Aaaaaah!
Army General: ...Eight...
Morty: Aaaah!
Rick: Oof!
Rick: Hold still.
Mr. President: Oh, hey, guys. I just finished cooking us a feast.
Rick: Aaaah! Holy--
Zeep: You monster!
Mr. President: Whoa. Bad tour.
Army General: ...seven...
Secretary: Hey, you got to sign out.
Rick: Nothing you do matters! Your existence is a lie!
Secretary: If that were really true, then...
Female Visitor: I'm here to see Ron Mendleson.
Secretary: Third floor. Would you like to go to dinner with--
Female Visitor: Uh, no.
Zeep: You may have created this universe, Rick, but I live in it.
Morty: What are we gonna do, Rick? We're so screwed. He's gonna get to the ship and smash the microverse, and then he's gonna kill us!
Rick: Quick, Morty, you've got to turn into a car.
Morty: What?!
Rick: A long time ago, I implanted you with a subdermal chip that could call upon dormant nanobots in your bloodstream to restructure your anatomy and turn you into a car.
Morty: Oh, my God!
Rick: Concentrate, Morty. Concentrate and turn into a car, Morty.
Morty:
Rick: Never mind. Here's a taxi. Get in. It's fine.
Army General: ...six...
Rick: Hey, Zeep.
Zeep: Huh?
Rick: Happy Ricksgiving, biiiiiitch.
Zeep: Aaah!
Rick: We did it, Morty. Now let's get out of here and destroy this whole universe.
Taxi Driver: Excuse me?
Army General: ...five--
Soldier: Sir?
Army General: Holy hell.
Soldier: Sir!
Human President: Hold you fire!
Summer: What's going on?
Ship: I have brokered a peace agreement between the giant spiders and the government.
Human President: Thanks to the skilled diplomacy of this mysterious space car, from this day forward, human- and spiderkind will live side by side in peace. We will stop bombing them, and they will no longer use their telepathic abilities to make us wander into webs for later consumption. Instead, we will work together to make this world a better place for all, no matter how many legs.
Soldier: What do we do about the space car?
Human President: Leave it alone. I mean, what did it really do, anyways? Kill a guy and paralyze his buddy?  Not a bad trade for spider peace.
Army General: .All right, that's it. Move out!
Human President:  I love this spider!
Ship: Summer is safe.
Summer: All right, I get it.
Zeep: Rick!
Morty: Don't do it.
Rick: You quit school, but you still got some learning to do.
Zeep: Aah!
Rick: Unh!
Rick: Class dismissed.
Morty: Geez.
Rick: You all right?
Summer: Uh-huh!
Morty: What are you doing, Rick? I'm pretty sure the battery's dead.
Rick: Oh, you think so, huh, Morty? Well, let's see.
Morty: Hey, wait-- huh? I don't get it.
Rick: Of course you don't. But Zeep did. He knew that once I got back to my car, one of two things was gonna happen-- I was gonna have to toss a broken battery, or the battery wouldn't be broken.
Zeep: Peace among worlds, Rick.
Morty: Jesus.
Rick: Yeah. Listen to that baby purr. You were right, Morty-- We really just needed to be honest with those guys. All right, here we go.
Rick: Thank y-o-o-ou. See, Morty? This is what it's all about.This is why we do what we do.
Morty: Uh-huh.
Rick: Ew! What the hell? Jesus! There's flies in my ice cream.
Ice cream clerk: Presidential decree-- All ice cream is now for all beings, no matter how many legs.
Rick: What the fuck did you do, Summer?!
Summer: It was your ship! Your stupid ship did it!
Rick: Don't blame my ship!
Summer: It melted a child!
Rick: My ship doesn't do anything...
Summer: It killed it itself!
Rick: ...unless it's told to do something!
Summer: We almost died!
Rick: I don't want to hear it, Summer!
Rick: Your boobs are all hanging about, and you ruined ice cream with your boobs out. And don't even try to deny it, either.
Morty:
Rick: Don't worry about Jerry. He's gonna be fine.You hear me Jerry? You're gonna be fine!
Morty: Woahh!
Rick: ooo... Watch out for that stuff. It'll stain if it gets on your clothes, and it'll send into a murderous rage if it gets in your eyes or mouth.
Beth: Why would you keep mutant bacteria in a pint of Cherry Garcia?
Rick: I know this isn't the time, but, you know, technically the second freezer drawer is mine.
Beth: Not anymore.
Rick: You're overreacting!
Alien Nurse: We're losing him.
Rick: Alright fine, but you're not touching my CRISPR.
Summer: Is he going to die?
Alien Nurse: Don't worry. Dr. Glipglop is the best in the galaxy
Dr. Glipglop: Hello, I'm Dr. Glipglop.
Rick: What? Every hospital claims to have the best doctor in the galaxy. It's like those pizza places that claim to have the best pizza in the world. What- Do you think they have pizza contests? Have you ever been to a pizza contest?
Beth: Go in the waiting room, Dad.
Rick: Fine!  Excuse me. Coming through. What are you here for- Just kidding, I don't care. Well this won't do.
Alien Nurse: Hey! What are you doing!?!
Rick: A sequel.
Alien Nurse: I don't understand.
Rick: Yeah me neither, we pretty much nailed it the first time.
Randy Dicknose: Man vs. Car. The newest hit show where it pits a man vs. a car. Tonight's episode Jenkins fights... a regular old car. Here we go. He's pushin' his way through, he's trying to fight that car. The car seems to have the upper hand- Oh, he just got some push-back there.
Randy Dicknose: Oh, he just got ran over and chewed up by the tires. I guess that's another one for the car. Ha ha ha ha ha... I mean, wouldn't the cars always win...?
Alien Man: Samantha, I need to know that you understand that I have a couple of eye-holes.
Samantha: I do, I do understand about your eye-holes! Here, look at my eye-holes!
Alien Man: Oh, my goodness you have eight eye-holes!  Oh, I'm looking through your eye-holes!
Samantha: Yes, look through my eye-holes!
Eye-hole Man: I'm the Eye-hole Man! I'm the only one whose allowed... to have eye-holes!  Get on up outta here with my eye-holes!
Announcer: Eye-holes! Get them today! IKEA.
Rick: You gotta be careful Morty, if that guy catches you with a box of his eye-holes he comes bursting in through a window and just starts kicking the shit outta you. But it's worth the risk, they melt in your mouth Morty! They're delicious.
Beth: I can't believe you're explaining alien cereal, we're worried about Jerry.
Rick: Well you're thirty-nine years too late, or however old he is. Is he fifty? Jesus, Christ, Beth is, is Jerry fifity!?
Jerry: Where am I?
Alien Doctor: Relax Mr. Smith, you're in an alien hospital. I mean to you it's an alien hospital, to me you're just in a hospital. There's another matter we need to discuss with you.
Jerry Ok?
Alien 1: An hour ago Shrimply Pibbles, the galaxy's most influential civil rights leader, was brought to this hospital's emergency room where he is currently fighting for his life!
Jerry: My God!
Alien 1: Mr. Smith, Shrimply Pibble's life can be saved if we replace his heart with your human penis.
Jerry: I see-WAIT! What?
Alien Doctor: It's perfect! The configuration of veins, the ratio of thickness to elasticity, the delicate asymmetry of what you call "your balls". With relatively few adjustments, your genitals can be molded into a functioning heart for the most important man in the universe!
Jerry: Yeah, but, I mean-
Alien 2: Oh, forget it! I told you this was a waste of time!
Alien 1: Have respect Yarp, the earth man's world is tiny and undeveloped. He knows nothing of the genocides of Klorgon or the tragic events of 6-5.3-4-3-2.2-3-14
Old Alien: And even if he did, he wouldn't comprehend them. I've dwelt among the humans. Their entire culture is built around their penises. It's funny to say they are small, it's funny to say they are big. I've been at parties, where humans have held bottles, pencils, thermoses in front of themselves and called out "hey look at me! I'm Mr. so and so dick." "I've got such and such for a penis." I never saw it fail to get a laugh.
Jerry: Alright! That's enough. You guys are talking about my species! We understand genocide, we do it sometimes!
Alien 1: Then you would give your penis so that Shrimply Pibbles may live?
Alien 2: Stop asking!
Jerry: Yes I will! That's right, assholes, take my penis, TAKE IT ALL! And tell Shrimply Pimples that when the galaxy came calling, Jerry Smith from Earth didn't flinch!
Rick: Hey, what's wrong Morty? Oh, you're worried about your dad, huh?
Morty: Huh? Uh, no no no, I'm-I'm just looking at that lady getting coffee. What's up with her face? Is she a human or is she like Worf. You know Worf, from Star Trek, how he has the shit all over his face but he's just a human in a costume, you know?
Rick: Morty let's-let's see what else is on.
Morty: Okay.
TV Host: And now we're back to "How Did I Get Here?" The only show that makes you ask "How Did I Get Here?"  Here's our first person!
Worf Lady: Oh, oh my goodness! How did I get here? HELLO!?! How did I get here!?! Somebody help me, please!
TV Host: Ha ha ha ha, right!
Morty: Whoa! Look! It's that lady with all that shit on her face like Worf from Star Trek! Tha-That was getting coffee! How did she get there!
Rick: Oh, man Morty. How DID she get there?
TV Host: How DID she get there? He he
Beth: Is that something we should be concerned about?
Rick: Just stay away from the coffee machine.
TV: Calling all Jan-Michael Vincent's, calling all Jan-Michael Vincent's!
Announcer: In a world, where there's eight Jan-Michael Vincents.
Intercom : We need one Jan-Michael Vincent to quadrant C. Two Jan-Michael Vincents to quadrant E.
Announcer: And sixteen quadrants. There's only enough time for a Jan-Michael Vincent to make it to a quadrant. He can't be in two quadrants at once.
Morty: Rick, who-who is Jan-Michael Vincent?
Rick: Oh man, I'm trying to remember Morty.
Announcer: Jan-Michael Vincents are used up.
Radio Control Guy: I need a goddamn Jan-Michael Vincent!
Morty: Is it important that we know who Jan-Michael Vincent is in order to get this?
Rick: Nope.
Alien-Robo Judge: I refuse to sign the legislation that allows more than eight Jan-Michael Vincents to a precinct.
Announcer: This JANuary, It's time to MIKE down your Vincent's. Jan Quadrant Vincent 16.
Rick and Morty: Whoa!
Rick: That's Jan-Michaels.
Morty: Excuse me, nurse, can you take my temperature? Because I think I have Jan Quadrant Vincent fever over here.
Rick: All right, Morty you've done it!
Alien Doctor: So, we'll be detaching your sexual organ at the base by making incisions here,here, and here.
Jerry: Got it.
Alien Doctor: Leaving a partial length of severed urethra to be threaded through-
Jerry:  Oh, you know what, I gotta laugh at myself here! I'm having a little laugh at myself because I just realized I haven't run this whole decision past my wife.
Alien Doctor: Oh, do you think she'll be okay with this?
Jerry: Oh, absolutely. Beth is automatically on board, always, with every decision I make.
Stealy: Hey, I'm Stealy. Follow me on my adventure through this office. Alright, here we go. We're gonna just steal a couple of things.
Business Man: Excuse me. Can I help you?
Stealy: Starting with common office objects.
Business Man: Hey, hey, hey! That's my stuff!
Stealy: Such as staplers and pins and all sorts of things like-such as that.
Business Man: That's it. I'm calling security.
Stealy: All right, okay, we're in the quiet safe room where none of the people whose stuff I stole can get to us. Now, let's look at all the stuff we got. We got a bag of Bobbish. That's eight brapples. We got a plumbus. That's six and a half brapples. We got, uh, a-crushed party cups. Fifteen and a half brapples.
Comedian: Welcome back to "funny songs". It's all improvised. It's very funny. I need a volunteer from the audience.
A man in the audience: Um, longtime fan of the show. Uh-
Comedian: What do you do? What is your profession?
A man in the audience: I am a tax attorney.
Comedian: Okay, here we go. Hit-hit the music. : I'm a tax attorney oh, geez, oh forget about everybody else, forget about Jesus Christ, forget about Muhammed, forget about.... all those religions! Ba da ba ba da ba bop! The end.
A man in the audience: Oh man. Oh, that was so-so funny. Thank you.
Comedian: You're welcome. Hey, um, security guards, take him out. Get him out of here.
A man in the audience: What?
Comedian: Get the orthodontist out of here.
A man in the audience: No! Why?!?
Comedian: Take him out of the audience. Kill him. Sick him.  Demons, suck his life out. I don't give a shit.
Alien Doctor: Smith family?
Beth: Yes?
Alien Doctor:I wanted to let you all know that Jerry is doing just fine.
All: Yeah, whoo, awesome, called it, that's good news!
Alien Doctor: But, ah, Mrs. Smith, could you come with me?
Jerry: Hi, honey, so, here's the thing-these guys-they want to completely remove my penis and use it as an alien's heart, and we just need you to sign off on it.
Beth: WHAT!?!
Jerry: Uh-oh, maybe we have a problem here after all guys. Yikes.
Alien Doctor: His penis will be replaced with a sophisticated prosthetic, now there's a wide range of options to chose from, they're all in this catalog.
Beth: I don't care about prosthetics, this is insane! What do you people think you're doing?
Alien Doctor: I understand your feelings, Mrs. Smith.
Beth: Oh, I don't think you do. I bring my husband in for emergency medical treatment, he's gone an hour, and now you want his PENIS, and you hand me some... catalog. It's--It's--It's--It's, I mean.
Jerry: Sheesh, well, there you go. Sorry. I know it's hard to understand, but on Earth, love comes first.
Alien Doctor: There are those that believe, Mr. Smith, that Shrimply Pibbles represents love between all life. His fate will determine the fate of hundreds of billions of sentient life forms.
Beth: Woah! Woah. So, billions of life forms?
Alien Doctor: Hundreds of billions.
Beth: I mean, Jerry, y-you didn't explain the full gravity of the situation.
Jerry: Uh, well, Beth, I don't think your decision should be based on politics. Who could argue with a wife's decision to keep her LOVER INTACT.
Beth: Well I don't think that's fair at all, Jerry. At all. In fact, I think this whole paradigm has sexist overtones.
Jerry: Beth, can we talk about this privately?
Beth: You know, I think, the bottom line is, Jerry, if you want to keep your penis, you should say, out loud, "I prefer to keep my penis."
Jerry: : But, Beth, what kind of man would say something like that if the universe needed his penis!?!
Beth: Well, Jerry, what kind of wife would I be if I did anything to stand in your way?
Restaurant chef: Hey, listen, is your mouth tiny and small? Then why don't you come down to 'Little Bits?'
Background whisper: LIttle Bits!
Resturant chef : Where the food is tiny...it looks like regular food. But really tiny. You put it in your mouth and eat it. Nothing gets stuck in your lips. It's just tiny and tiny and fits  fits right in!
Background whisper: Little Bits!
Restaurant chef:  We got....tiny uh-lasagna. tiny pizza, tiny pie. Mmh! Little tiny...fried eggs!  Oh, shit! We got tiny people!
Background whisper: Little Bits!
Restaurant chef :You hungry? Come on down!
Background whisper: Little Bits!
Restaurant chef: Eat some fucking shit, you fucking stupid bitch!  Just kidding.
Alien doctor: You got some time to kill befpre the procedure, so I assume you'd like to uh....use your penis one last time. Here's my computer. It's got the alien internet on it.  There's some...porn. And there's an alien towel- I actually got that on another planet, so it is an alien towel to me! Good luck!
Jerry : Thanks.  What is this?  Hmm..Hey! Wait a minute!
Alien doctor : Oh, um...Mr. Smith!
Jerry : Yeah, just masturbating!
Alien doctor : I forgot to mention, there are extensive medical records open on my desktop, but >I trust you to confine your activities to the purely pornographic.
Jerry : Absolutely!
Alien doctor  Good luck!
Jerry : My God!  Mr. Pibbles.  You just wrote my penis a one-way ticket to staying on my body town.
Announcer: It's the Opposite news, with Michael Thompson!
Michael Thompson: Hey, everybody, it's me, Michael Thompson! Today, the pope...didn't..get killed!  He's perfectly fine...and he's on vacation on Aruba.Uh. In other opposite news information-
Morty : Hey, Rick ..what's the deal with this guy? Why is his body, like..sloping off to the right side of the screen like that?
Rick: I dunno. Let's see what else is on, huh?
Pichael Thompson: Hey, welcome to 'cooking things'! I'm Pichael Thompson!
Morty: Hey, look, rick! This guy's body is, like, sloping down and leaning off to screen left!
Rick: Oh my God, and his name's Pichael!
Pichael Thomson: I'm cooking a little bit of this, I'm gonna cook a little bit of that..  Oh, hey! Stop tugging, Michael!
Morty : Oh my God, Siamese twins! They're siamese twins!
Michael Thompson: You quit tugging! I'm in the middle of my news!
Pichael Thompson: Oh, oh, it's always about you, isn't it. Can you believe this guy, ladies and gentlemen? He'S got his own news show, he' got a normal name..
Morty: Hey, flip back to the news!
Rick: Oh, yeah, yeah,yeah!
Pichael Thomson: You can tell our parents started with naming him.It's like, oh, Michael. They had that one planned before they even got pregnant, I bet.
Summer: I don't wanna be that girl, but maybe there would be less conflict if they didn't shoot there shows at the same time?
Rick: Uh, Summer, you have no idea how much money that must save productions.
Pichael Thompson: And then they found out I was attached to him along for the ride and they said, 'Ah well, shit. Ah, just fuck it, call him Pichael!
Michael Thompson: Fuck you, Pichael! You're a fucking piece of shit!
Alien 1: Good afternoon!I know all of you are wondering about the condition of our dear beloved Pibbles.
Beth : Which would you prefer between the XP20 and the XP20XS?
Jerry : I prefer my own penis! And so should you! :
Alien 1: The brave earth man whose sacrifice is going to allow Shrimply Pibbles to live.Mr. Jerry Smith
Jerry: Hello, everyone! Let's hear it again for Shrimply Pibbles, huh.  He's a good guy, isn't he?  I've just been learning about his accomplishments, from his march on Flirk Blirk Square, to his ongoing battle with heroin dependancy, he's the best.  Um...yeah..well...it occurs to me that his heroin addiction may not have been a matter of public record!
Male reporter alien 1: You realize heroin makes up to ten percent of the atmosphere on Shrimply Pibbles' home planet?
Female reporter alien: His planet got destroyed by Clorgon death squads, he can't live outside of it without breathing heroin.
Jerry : Right! I know that! I just think...
Male reporter alien 2: This guy's trying to get out of giving away his penis!
Morty: I got to tell you, Rick. It’s pretty great to be in this spaceship, just the two of us, you know? Just cruising around, Rick and Morty style.
Rick: I agree, Morty.  Nicee to get back to the basics after a pretty intense, mixed-bag of a year. Ohh!Relax.That’s what windshields are for.I didn’t know that there were bugs out in space.
Rick: Well , w-what did you think, Morty? Life just developed on earth by itself? Here, let me take care of this.
Morty: Geez, Rick, that’s disgusting. I don’t want to look at that.
Rick: Yeah, guess I’m out of fluid. L-let me find a place to stop. Hey, muchacho, does your planet have wiper fluid yet, or are you gonna freak out and start worshipping us?T
The general store ought to have what you need. Thanks. Of course, you’ll be wanting to be gone from here by sundown.
Rick: Yeah, sure thing. Wait a minute. What? Why?
Sundown is when the festival begins.
Morty: The festival?
Ooh, well, for millennia, our society has been free of crime and war, living in perfect peace.
Rick: Oh, I know what this is! You’ve been able to sustain world peace because you have one night a year where you all run around robbing and murdering each other without consequence.
That’s right.
Morty: What?!
Rick: It’s like "the purge," Morty. That movie "the purge"?
Oh, have you been here before?
Rick: No, no, but I’ve been to a few planets with the same gimmick. You know, sometimes it’s called the cleansing or the red time. There was this one world that called it just murder night. I-it’s a purge planet. They’re peaceful, and then, you know, they just purge.
Morty: T-that’s horrible!
Rick: Yeah. You want to check it out?
Rick: So, what do you do during the festival? You lock yourself in, or you go out and do some stuff?
Old man: Oh, I do some pretty bad stuff.
Rick: Oh, I bet you do, old timer.
Morty: Gee... Rick, come on. The sun is setting. W-we got to get out of here.
Rick: All right, well, w-what do I owe you for the wiper fluid?
It’s on the house. Oh, and, uh, why... why don’t you have some candy bars, as well?
Rick: Oh, no way. That’s really nice of you.
I’m a nice guy... For now.
Rick:  Ohh, I don’t doubt it.
Morty: Rick!
Rick: Yeah, yeah. Hey, have a good festival, old timer.
I intend to.
Morry: Rick, unlock it!
Rick: Just a second, Morty. Oh, look at that sunset.
Stop screwing around.
Rick: There we go. Much better. Now we can see.
Morty: Great.
Rick: Hey, you know what, Morty? Why don’t we christen our squeaky-clean windshield here by watching a little of this purge through it?
Morty: What?! No! What is your problem?!
Rick: Morty, grow up. If you don’t want to watch, don’t watch, but, you know, it’s my car.  Also, if you tell your mom about this, I’ll purge you.
Morty: You’re the worst.And this planet is the worst. How can you be into this? You know, people are gonna kill each other.
Rick: So, what, y-y-you trying to sit here and tell me that  I-if... if there’s a video online with someone getting decapitated, you don’t click on it?
Morty: No! Why... why would I do that? You do that?
Rick: I don’t, because it would bore me. I see shit like that for breakfast, Morty. But if you don’t do it, I say it’s because you’re afraid of your own primal instincts. So you stuff them down and...
Rick: Oh, oh! Shh. Shh. It’s starting. Oh-ho-ho! Here we go.
Morty: I’m not watching.
Rick: Yeah, yeah, yeah, your medal’s in the mail. I'm gonna get a closer look.
Morty: Oh, okay, sure. And then someone’s gonna throw a rock and hit the car and then we’re gonna crash and we’re gonna be stuck down there and it’s gonna be what we deserve.
Rick: Yawn. Whoa!  Whoa, they are purging the fuck out of each other.
Rick: Oh, my God! Oh, shit. That was... okay, yeah. T-that was gross. Wow. Man, I think my eyes were bigger than my stomach on this one, Morty. Ugh. My appetite for purge-spectating got filled pretty quick. Oh, God.
Arthricia: Get away from me! No! No! Help! Somebody help me! Aah!
Rick: All right, Morty. L-let’s get out of here.
Morty: Wait, wait, wait. Hold on. W-we have to go down there.
Rick:  What? Why?
Morty: That poor girl. W-we have to save her.
Rick: Uh, Morty, in space, we have something we call the non-interference policy. We got the wiper fluid.We watched them kill each other. We’re leaving.Morty: Help me save that girl, or I’m telling mom you brought me here.
Rick: You little turd.
Arthricia: Please! Leave me alone!Leave you alone? During a purge?I don’t think so, baby.It’s okay. We’re not gonna hurt you.
Morty: My name is Morty. This is my grandpa.We’re tourists.
Not anymore.
Aah!
Aah!
Oh, my God. This is fucking awesome! Morty, this is really cool.Hey, y-you want to help me out here and kill some people? It’s fun. We’re totally justified because we’re saving a little girl. I mean, w-w-we’re both free and clear to murder these people.
Morty: Are you okay?
Yes.I have to find somewhere to hide. Well, you can hide with us. Rick?
Yeah?
Morty: Do you think we could take... w-what’s your name?
Arthricia: Arthricia.
Morty: Could we take Arthricia up in the ship and, you know, just wait out the purge?
Rick: Oh, Morty, how can I refuse after all you’ve done to blackmail me?
Arthricia: Your vehicle... is it from the gods?
Morty: No.
Rick: Yes.
Morty: So, uh, you know, when the purge started, did people get into it right away, or were they like, "wait, what?"This is gonna stop crime how, exactly?"Yeah, it took some time for people to accept it.Yeah, I bet.  I bet.Yeah, it’s kind of like cellphones, you know? At first, everyone was like, "look at those douchebags purging," and then the next thing you know, they’re like, "it’s just so convenient."
Rick: Geez, you working on your tight five for the comedy store, Morty?
Jerry: Whatcha doing? Watching some TV, playing on your phone?
Summer: Is that a real question?
Just making conversation.
Summer: Are you? What part of that gives me anything to work with?
Summer: My choice is to say nothing, be sarcastic, or bark "yes" like a trained animal. It’s not a conversation. You’re holding me verbally hostage.
Jerry: Okay, ass-face. I’ll go in the kitchen.
Suma: Hey, dad.
Jerry: Yeah? Summer: Whatcha doing? Going into the kitchen?
Summer: Okay. Yeah, you like that?
Jerri: Screw you.
Morty: So, uh, do most people wear masks when they purge?I-I don’t want to answer any more purge questions.All right, hey, hey, that’s cool.I can roll with that.
Arthricia:  My nana!
Morty: Huh?
Arthricia: My nana! We have to save her!
Rick: You just now remembered your Nana exists.
Arthricia: I-I was traumatized.
Rick: Haven’t you been through like 15 purges?
Arthricia: I mean, some as a child? Will somebody just help me get her?
Rick: Fine, whatever. Morty, stay.
Oh God. Oh, crap. Oh, crap!
Arthricia: Get out! Get out!
Hey, whoa, whoa, whoa!
Arthricia: Get the fuck out of the flying machine!
Morty: Oh, my God! O-okay! Okay!Arthricia: Back up, asshole.
Arthricia: Back up.
Ohh.
Arthricia: Back the fuck up!
Aah!
For what it’s worth, I’m sorry, but that’s not really worth anything tonight, is it?
Morty: Y-you can’t leave us here. You’re killing us! You hear me? Come back. Y-you got to come back. Change your mind. Oh, geez.
Rick: Morty! Aah! Fucking Amish bitch shot me!  She tried to purge me, Morty. You let your wiener do the walking, and now I’m dead. Morty.
Morty: Rick, she took the car!
Rick: You fucking kidding me, Morty?! She took my car and the gun. We’re like the rest of these assholes now. W-w-we’re gonna get purged, Morty. Help me up.
Morty: Oh, geez, geez! Wait a minute, Rick.Why don’t we just use your portal gun?
Rick: It’s in the car, dip-ass. Oh, God, it hurts.
Rick: She got me right in the goddamn liver, Morty. It’s the hardest-working liver in the galaxy, Morty, and now it has a hole in it. I hope it was worth it.
Morty: I was just trying to do right.
Rick: Yeah, well, that’s not really the theme of tonight’s party.Heads up. rapists. Well, don’t just stand there, Morty. Purge 'em.
Morty: Me?
Rick: No, me. Should I rub my liver hole on them? Pick up a stick or something and kill them.
Um, w-we come in peace.
Rick: Oh, my God. There’s more where that came from! You want to get purged, you bring it! Drop  drop your shit! Drop it all. Morty, go get their shit. Hurry up.I only had one of those things I threw. I’m holding a box of tic tacs right now.
Jerry: Want some crackers?Summer: No, thank you.
Jerry: Are you ready to be nice to me?Summer: In exchange for crackers?
Jerry: What happened to you?Summer: Dad, get a job.You’re trying to create drama because you’re bored.Oh. It’s the space phone grandpa gave us.
Summer: Hello?
Rick: Hey, Summer, it’s grandpa.I need you to do me a favor.I can barely hear you.Who is it?
Rick: Morty and I are on a planet that’s purging.I need you to take down...A plan that’s what? We’re on a planet that’s purging, Summer. Purging. We lost our car and my gun, and we’re in a purge.
Jerry: Ooh, is it Taddy Mason?
Summer: Like the movie "The Purge"?
Rick: Yes, I-I need you to take... that movie sucked. Oh, my God. Hold on.
It’s not Taddy Mason?
Summer: Dad, who the fuck is Taddy MasonMy friend.
Aah!
Are you okay? I’m putting you on speaker.
Taddy?
Yes, Jerry, it’s Taddy, a person no one’s ever heard of until now, calling you on a space phone.
I can’t tell if you’re being sarcastic.
Aah!
Reload, fast.Summer, w-we need you to take down this number. Quit screwing around.
Jerri: Morty? Are you all right?
Morty: No!
Why are you with Taddy Mason?
Morty: Holy shit, Dad! Shut the fuck up!
Jerry: Okay. I guess I’m just this entire family’s toilet paper.
Rick: Are you writing this down? Will you please write this down?
Summer: Yes, yes.7-7-1-9-8...3-6-4-2-1-1-2-5.Aah!.You son of a bitch!
Rick: Morty, I don't want to be the "a little help" guy, but a little help?
Aah!
Summer: Okay, I have a pen. Go.
7-7-1-9-8-3- 6-4-2-1-1-2-5. A spoon, Morty?A spoon?!I’m sorry.There’s a pile of silverware next to you, and you throw me the one thing that can never kill anything?All right, okay!Summer, on the shelf above my workbench in the garage, there’s a red box with a keypad on it. You’re gonna take that box outside, and you’re gonna type the number I just gave you into the keypad.Got it?
Got it.
Jerri: Is it just part of growing up to hate your dad?
Summer: I’m ignoring you.
Morty, if I can get to the top of that lighthouse, I can send the beacon, and your sister can launch our package. Just remember, if there’s people in there and they try to purge us, we got to purge them first.
We’re not purging anyone, Rick, all right? W-will you stop it?
Rick: Morty, if we’re gonna survive tonight, you’re gonna need to harness your repressed rage.
Morty: I don’t have any!
Rick: Spoken like a person with repressed rage.
I take no part in the festival.If you desire to kill me, I only ask you do it quickly.
No such agenda, chief. We’re not too keen on the purge, either, sir. We were just hoping to get on the roof of your lighthouse so we can send a beacon to my sister on earth. It’s a different planet.By the way, life on other planets exists. Don’t let it distract you.
I’ll let you use my lighthouse for shelter and beacon-sending on the condition that you listen to my tale.
Okay.
Deal.
Rick: All right, I’m gonna go to the roof and set things up.Morty, you listen to his tale.
Morty: Okay.
"Fade in. Exterior. Unnamed city. Day." The hustle and bustle is a symphony of progress.We pan past windows, each of which contain a different story, to find jacey lakims, 28... hot, but doesn’t know it.Jacey stops when her high heel gets caught in the grating of a sewer.Suddenly, a man steps into frame and points a gun at her.This is not her day.Fade to black."Title... ‘three weeks earlier.’"
You really don’t want to talk to me about this.
Dad, grandpa and Morty are in danger. You’re unemployed, and you’re bored.They’re a higher priority.
Stop saying I’m unemployed!
Summer: Okay, 7-7-1-9-8-3-6-4-2-1-12... aah!Good lord! Now what?Look, I’m your father, and I love you is all I’m saying.I’ll leave it at that.Fine, dad!Summer: Oh, he might have said to take it outside.
Rick: Come on, Summer. How hard is it to type some numbers into a box?
Device: Target locked.
Rick: Oh, thank God.Well, I did my job. Summer did her job.Now all Morty has to do is finish listening to that tale.
"Blane: Maybe I don’t need a new friend."Jacey: Maybe you’re the only friend I need.Blane: Need, or want?Jacey: I’ve never been much for wanting."Blane: Spoken like someone with needs."
Morty: Oh, geez.
Hmm?
Uh, sorry. K-keep going.
"Jacey reaches out and touches his face."It’s clear he needs what she wants.She’s a woman. He’s a man.The city burns in the background as he takes her in his arms.Fade out.Title... ‘the end’..."Question mark."
Wow.
Yeah?
Morty: It’s... G-good job. Good job.
You liked it?
Morty: Of course I did.
You didn’t laugh at the scene in the bar.
Morty: I...Thought it was funny, but I wanted to hear the rest.
Do you have any thoughts? Notes?
Morty: No. I-I just enjoyed it.That’s my note, you know? Please write more.
Seems a little insincere.
Morty: What? No.
You don’t have to mollycoddle me.I want to improve my writing. Tell me your real thoughts.
Morty: All right. Well, um, I’m not a huge fan, personally, of the whole "three weeks earlier" teaser thing.I feel like, you know, we should start our stories where they begin not start them where they get interest...
get out.
Morty: Um, what?
No, I’m sick of this. You bang on my door, you beg me to help you, I share something personal with you, and you take a giant shit on it.
Morty: Hey, man, we asked if we could put up a beacon...
well, you can’t. I want you out of here. You’re a petty person, and you’re insecure, and you’re taking it out on me. That’s a good script.
Morty: What the hell?!
I don’t care. I want you out.
What?
Take that thing down. Your grandson is a shitty person. Leave now.:
Rick: Morty!
Morty: Rick, I didn’t do anything. I sat through his entire screenplay...
you "sat through it"?
Morty: Yes! Did you want me to weep with joy?It’s terrible!
Rick: Whoa! Morty! We’re guests here.
I tried to be a good guest! He dragged it out of me!
I’m taking down this beacon.
Morty: No, stop! That’s not fair! Just because you hate your own writing doesn’t make me a bad person!
Aah!
You like that? You want me to cut to three weeks earlier when you were alive?
Rick: Whoa, Morty. You just purged.
Device: Beacon arriving.
Rick: Okay, time to go. Well, terrific.
Summer: Dad, what’s going on? What’s the deal here?
Jerry: I just wanted to spend some time with my daughter. You’re growing up so fast. You used to be my little girl.
Yeah.
Jerry: Remember when we used to go to the playground, and I’d push you on the swings?
Summer: Oh, you could push me higher than all the other kids.
Jerry: You were so small and cute. I thought you were gonna fly right off into the street.
I used to pee my pants.
Jerri: I know, and now look at you! You have a job. You’re making really good money. You’re not paying any rent, so you have plenty of disposable income.
Oh, God, dad. Please, don’t.
Jerry: I just need a few hundred dollars to get through the month. I have some interviews coming up .Something’s gonna come through. I can feel it.
Summer:I’m going inside.
I guess this is what rock bottom feels like, Jerry.Ow!It’s okay, Morty. It’s the purge, you know?Pushing old lighthouse keepers down the stairs is totally cool.It’s not cool, Rick. I-I’m not like these people.I can’t run around chopping people’s heads off one day a year and then sleep well the rest of the time.
Rick: Well, you better start getting used to it, little bitch, because we got some fucking company.Hey, there he is.Here I am.
Rick: Morty. Time to  purge. Tony! Toni! Toné!’S "feels good" plays ] ♪ it feels good ♪♪ yeah ♪♪ it feels good ♪
♪ holdin’ you so ♪ ♪ it feels good ♪
Rick: Geez. Wow, Morty. Now you’re getting into it. Never expected that out of you.All right, uh, let’s go find my ship.Hey, hey, Morty, Morty. There it is down there... my ship.It looks to me like the... Morty?
Morty: Suck my dick.
♪ it feels good ♪
Morty: Eat this!
Ooh, boy, you’re really, uh...Ha-ha! Ha! ♪ It feels good you’re really going for it over there, huh?Rick: I, uh  I think, uh  I think those people were just hiding.Morty: I don’t give a shit!
Rick: Okay, Morty, now you’re just shooting corpses.
Morty: How do you like this?
Rick: Okay, buddy.All right. That’s good. Good job.
Rick: Time to go home.
Wait, stop! Please, don’t kill me!I-I never intended to harm you, I swear. I am trying to end the festival.
W-w-what do you mean?
Arthricia: I was going to use your ship to destroy the rich assholes that run our society and save my people from the horrors of this yearly festival.Morty: Fuck that, Rick! We got to kill her! Kill her! Kill her!
Rick: Whoa! Geez, Morty, purge it down a little.
Morty: "Purge! Don’t purge!" You’re sending me mixed messages, Rick.
Rick: Morty  you’re acting like a  freaking lunatic. Calm down.
Morty: Screw you, Rick! I'll purge you, too, you old, rickety piece of crap! This has been a long time coming! I"m gonna rip your fucking guts out and smear them all over your face! I ain’t taking no sh... aah!
Okay, s-sorry about that.Now, where are these rich people?
To another successful year of the festival, pitting poor people against each other for thousands of years.Wait, w-where is that music coming from?What is the meaning of this?♪ It feels good ♪
Here's the deal.I’m not here to judge.I’m just a guy from another planet.But this girl is one of your poor people, and I guess you guys felt like it was okay to subject her to inhuman conditions because there was no chance of it ever hurting you.It’s sort of the socio-political equivalent of, say, a suit of power armor around you.But now things are evened out, so, Arthricia?[
All gasp ]
Arthricia: Happy festival, cocksuckers! Suck my cock! Chew my balls !Suck my huge dick!
Geez. ♪ It feels good ♪
You want to get in on this, Rick?
No, I really... honestly, I-I’ve had my fill. It’s gratuitous at this point.
You sure you don’t want to join in? This is really amazing.♪ It feels good yeah, but... ah, all right. Fuck it. ♪♪ It feels good yeah, bitch, what’s up? ♪♪ It feels good ♪
♪ it feels good ♪ ♪ yeah ♪ ♪ it feels good whoa! ♪ ♪ Ohh, it feels good ♪Okay, now it’s time we do a little dancing to... to Tony! Toni! Toné!♪ It feels good, yeah look at my fucking feet, motherfucker! ♪Whoo! Aw, yeah!♪ It feels good ♪
Arthricia, what do you got?
Check this move out.
♪ Oh, it feels good ♪
Oh, ho!
I don’t know what song that is, but I fucking love it!
"Feels Good".
It’s a fucking hit song.
♪ It feels good ♪ topped the charts, I think.
Ho, ho!
♪ Oh, it feels good ♪
Hey, thanks for helping me, Rick. You’re a pretty great guy.
Rick: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Fuck you for shooting my liver.
I’ll see you around.
Morty: Oh, man. What... what happened?
Don’t worry about it, Morty. Listen, if you wanted to try to get a piece, you better hurry up. Now’s your last chance.
Morty: Hey, hey, Arthricia, um, maybe I could... uh, I have a boyfriend.
Okay.
I’m not trying to be rude. I just... I don’t want to lead you on.
I-I-I understand.
I mean, thank you so much for helping end the festival, but I have a boyfriend, and, uh, he’s just... okay, okay, you can stop saying it.
I took it okay the first time, and now you’re just repeating stuff.
Oh, I’m sorry.
It’s okay.
Oh, you’re so sweet, I just... oh, but I can’t.
Yeah, you’re still doing it.
It won’t be easy creating a new society from the ground up.
Well, a helpful rule might be if you need something, you get it.
Pretty simple, right?
I need food.
Who’s got food for that guy?
I do, but this is for me.
Can’t you make some more?
Oh, sure. And while I’m making food for everyone, who takes care of my kids?
I’ll take care of your kids, if I get some extra food for it.
Extra food?
Well, I’m not gonna do extra work if we all get the same.
All right, okay, fair is fair.
If you do extra work, you get extra food.
Oh.
Who’s gonna keep track of who gets how much food for how much work?
Hello. I can do that.
I’ll keep track of everyone’s food, you know, in exchange for food.
That’s not a real job! Oh, and making food is? You son of a bitch!
Eat this!
Guys, guys, guys, guys, whoa, whoa.
Cool it, now. Take it easy.
There’s too much aggression here.
What if we designate a period of time during which we can all get this hate, murder, and rage out of our system...
Morty: I can’t help but feel ashamed about what I did back there, Rick. I guess you were right. I’ve got a lot of repressed stuff. I need to deal with.
Don’t worry about it, Morty.
Remember those candy bars earlier that we got in the first act?
Yeah, what about them?
Turns out they have a chemical in them called purgenol that amplifies all your violent tendencies.
Oh, boy. Whew! Thank goodness for that, huh?
That’s a relief.
Yep. Don’t even sweat.
You’re still the same old Morty. Your character’s totally protected.
♪ It feels good ♪
Man: And there’s the approach.
Beth: Jerry, what is "Taddi Mason LLC," and why is our phone bill $700?
Taddy Mason: Uh... Hey, are you bored... Uh... ...Lonely, just looking for a friend? Uh... Call me, Taddy Mason. It’s only $1.99 a minute to talk. Uh... Sign up today, and I’ll even call you on a regular basis... Uh... For just $1.99 a minute. That’s a steal because I’m a great pal. Uh... We could talk about sports or barbecue.
Beth: Jerry, get a job.
Jerry: The trick to cereal is keeping 70% of it above the milk.
Beth: Jerry, get a job.
Rick: Uh, w-why don't you get it Jerry? you're the man of the house and you don't have a job.
Jerry:
hovers into the house and makes its way into the dining room.)
Courier Flap:  Delivery for Rick, Morty, Summer, Beth and Jerry.
Summer:  Gross, what is that thing?
Rick: It's a Courier Flap, it's like the Intergalactic version of UPS but less off-putting.  OH SHIEEET! It looks like an egg-vite from Birdperson! It must be time for his annual Oscar party. By the way, our TV signals take lightyears to reach his planet, nobody tell him that Braveheart wins.
Birdperson's Voice: Greetings, this is Birdperson.
Tammy's Voice: And Tammy!
Birdperson's Voice: Inviting you to Planet Squanch for our mate-melding ceremony.
Rick:  Ughhhh...
Tammy's Voice:  If you're not a bird, that means we're getting married!
Summer: Oh my God! My friend Tammy's marrying Birdperson!
Jerry: What the hell is a 'Birdperson,'?
Morty: He's Rick's best friend.
Rick: Uhhhh, l-l-let's not get carried away, Morty.
Courier Flaps: Would you like to RSVP or send a gift?
Rick: No. Weddings are basically funerals with cake. If I wanted to watch someone throw their life away, *belch* I'd hang out with Jerry all day.
Courier Flap: Affirmative. Returning to sender.
Beth: No, hold on, stay... 'Courier Flaps.'
Courier Flap:  Staying.
Beth: Dad, you have a friend that's getting married... that's a big deal.
Jerry: *Scoffs* it's a big deal he has a friend.
Rick: What do you know about friendship, Jerrrrrry?
Courier Flap: Confirm, shipping Jerry.
Beth: Oh God, Jerry?!
Summer and Morty: Dad?!
Beth:  Where is it taking him?
Rick:  I assume Planet Squanch, 6000 lightyears across the galaxy.
Morty: Wh?-Wh- th-th-that's insane!
Rick: Yeah, I know. Now we have to go to the wedding.
Squanchy: Rick Sanchez, you psycho bag of Squanch!
Rick:  Hey, what's up, Squanchy?
Summer and Morty:  Heya Squanchy.
Squanchy: Morty, Summer! And you must be Beth.  Au squanché.
Beth:  Your language has 'squanch,' in it a lot. Doesn't that become tedious and worn out like the Smurf thing?
Rick: Beth, Squanchy culture is more... contextual than literal. You just say what's in your squanch and people understand.
Beth: Oh, okay... I squanch my family.
Squanchy: Uhh...
Beth: What? I do, I squanch my family.
Squanchy: Just stop saying it, gross.
Photography Cyborg: I am not staring at you. I am Cyborg photographer, just act natural. This is a candid shot, I don't require a camera so...  Sorry.  Hi, I am not staring at you.
Rick: But, BUT. Here's the thing, Birdperson is my best friend, and if he he loves Tammy, well then I love Tammy too.
Rick: To friendship, to love and to my greatest adventure yet, opening myself up to others!
Summer:
Morty: Cheers to that, motherfuckers!
Tammy: Thank you, Rick. That was beautiful. Cuz I look around this room, and I think "Uh Tammy, you're a high school senior from the Planet Earth and you're marrying a 40 year old Birdperson", like "Whaaat"?
Summer: Yeah Tammy!
Tammy: Then I think, you know in a lot of ways I'm not a high school senior from the planet Earth. In a lot ways what I really am, is a deep-cover agent for the Galactic Federation, and you guys are a group of wanted criminals, and this entire building is in a certain sense surrounded.
Morty: Huh?
Summer: What?
Rick: Oh shit.
Beth: I don't get the metaphor.
Jerry: I'll explain it to you later.
Tammy: Everyone here is under arrested for the crime against the Federation!
Humanoid Quest: L'chaim!
Birdperson:  Tammy, what are you doing here?
Tammy:  Sit! Your bird ass, down!
Birdperson: Tammy?
Birdperson: Caaww! Caww...
Rick: Birdperson, NOOOOOOOO!!
Squanchy: RAAOOWWARR!!!  WHAT ABOUT A TASTE OF MY SQUANCH!!??
Rick: Come on, this way!
Squanchy: SQAUSH THIS!!
Jerry: I'm just saying, we keep acting like there's only two options, but there's not. So, yes, if we went back to earth, as long as Rick was out there, they’d want to interrogate us. But, and this is purely hypothetical, what if we turned your father in to the government?
Beth: Jerry, so help me god, if you ever bring this up again, no more bacon.
Jerry: There already is no more bacon! This world sucks! Our life sucks! Why are we doing this for someone that would never do anything for anyone but himself?
Morty: That's not the point, Dad! We love Rick! F-For the most part.
Summer: Yeah, you don't love people in hopes of a reward, Dad. You love them unconditionally.
Beth: That's very good, kids. I'm proud of you.
Jerry: Okay, so let me get this straight. For the rest of your lives, no matter how much it hurts you, no matter how much it destroys our children's futures, we're gonna do whatever Rick wants, whenever he wants?
All but Jerry: Yes.
Jerry: WHY?!
Beth: Because I don't want him to leave again, you dumb asshole!
Rick: Hey, uh, I was gonna hop over to the Gloppydrop System, get some ice cream.
Morty: You... You want me to come with? I mean, don't you need my brainwaves for camouflage or something?
Rick: I'll be okay. Bye, Morty.
Morty: Rick? You're not leaving, right?
Rick: Yeah, I am. To get ice cream.
Morty: So you're coming back?
Rick: Morty, if you go to where there’s a bunch of ice cream and then you don’t come back, you haven’t actually gotten ice cream, you’ve just gone where ice cream is.
Morty: Rick, I can handle it if you go, but you'll break mom's heart, and I won't forgive you for that.
Rick: Where's the van, Morty?
Morty: It's over the horizon in the driveway.
Operator:  For English, press 2.  Connecting to agent.
Female Voice: Ongoing investigations.
Rick: Uh, hi. My name is Jerry Smith, I'm from Planet Earth. I know the whereabouts of Rick Sanchez, the wanted criminal.
Female Voice: Hold on!
Gribbles: This is Special Agent Gribbles. You have a tip about Rick Sanchez?
Rick: Yeah, he kidnapped me and my family, and he left us on Dwarf Terrace-9. He said he was gonna go to the Plim Plom Tavern. And listen.
Gribbles: Yes?
Rick: I'm doing what's right for the galaxy by calling you, so if we come back to Earth, can my family have a normal life?
Gribbles: We only want Sanchez, sir. Your family will be fine.
Rick: Nice, thank you. I'm Jerry Smith, and I love sucking big, sweaty boners and licking disgusting and furry testicle sacks.
Gribbles: Uh, okay.
Beth: He's not coming back, isn't he?
Morty: No.
Jerry: Hey look, cops!
Gromflomite officer: Good morning.
Prison Photography Cyborg: Sorry. I am not staring at you, I'm taking your mugshot.
Zerillian prisoner: Hey, what are you in for?
Rick: Everything.
Rick: Anyway, that's how I escaped from space prison! Oh, scary place.
Morty: Wow, Rick! That's -- That's one -- one heck of a story. I sure do wish I could have been there to see it happen.
Rick: Oh, come on. Who wants to watch a mad scientist use handmade sci-fi tools to take out highly trained alien guards when we can sit here and be a family at Shoney's?
Beth: Dad, it's great to have you back, no matter where we are, but wouldn't you like to go home?
Rick: Emotionally speaking, honey, Shoney's is my home.
Jerry: Yeah, but you just got out of prison. I mean, how much of a step up from that is --
Rick: Jerry, get out of the booth, take all your clothes off, and fold yourself 12 times.
Jerry: You got it.
Rick: Six folds, huh? W-W-What, have you guys got me in a Series 9000? You cheap insect fucks didn't think I was worth your best equipment?
Cornvelious Daniel:  Man, I told the money bugs. I said, "You know who this guy is, right? You want me to get intel out of the smartest mammal in the galaxy, you better give me a decent brainalyzer.
Rick: Well, you might as well order some pancakes, because I don't see the need to leave this part of my brain.
Cornvelious Daniel: Oh, I think you do. Eventually, you're either gonna relax your cerebellum.
Rick: Shoney's.
Cornvelious Daniel: Or the Series 9000 is going to turn it into mush.
Rick: Relaxed enough?
Cornvelious Daniel: I admire you, Rick--
Rick:
Cornvelious Daniel: When I--
Rick:
Cornvelious Daniel: Rick, here's--
Rick:
Gromflomite Captain: What's going on?
Gromflomite Worker: It's hard to tell. He may have manifested some sort of butt.
Gromflomite Captain: He can do that?
Gromflomite Worker: He is the smartest man in the universe.
Transition to Smith residence
Jerry:  I tell ya, the Galactic Federation taking over Earth -- best thing that's ever happened to this family. I just got my sixth promotion this week, and I still don't know what I do.
Summer: Who cares how high they promote you? Everyone just gets paid in pills.
Jerry: Well, when you're not sure what you do for a living, you can make your own rules.
Beth: Summer, show your father some respect. He's pulling down a six-chewable figure income.
Conroy: I'll get that in a moment. How are everyone's pills? Oh, Morty, you've hardly touched your pills.
Morty: I kind of had big pills for lunch, and I  wasn't gonna eat any more pills.  Thank you, Conroy.
Jerry: You spoil us, Conroy.
Summer:  Grandpa Rick wouldn't put up with this!
Beth:  Stop saying his name! He abandoned us.
Jerry:  Willem Dafoe! Th-That's the guy I couldn't think of this morning.
Beth: Don't make my mistake, Summer. Don't deify the people that leave you. You'll end up a horse surgeon in a world controlled by aliens whose medicine keeps horses  healthy forever.  Horses live longer than tortoises now. Is that what you want for yourself?
Summer: Maybe I just want you to care if I run away yelling!
Conroy: Who saved room for pill brûlée?
Jerry: Ooh!
Transition to Shoney's
Convelious Daniel: I can see why you chose this family-friendly restaurant to represent your cerebellum. So safe, so comfortable, so Shoney's. But admit it, Rick -- you're going crazy cooped up in here. Let's go visit some memories.
Rick: Oh, any particular ones? You want to see my first boner, or should we go straight to the moment I discovered interdimensional travel?
Cornvelious Daniel:
Rick:' Ooh, your little flappy doodles are twitching. Does that mean you're aroused, or did you just get a signal that one of your buddies found a grape?
Cornvelious Daniel: It's arousal. Yes, I'd like very much to visit the memory of you inventing your portal gun.
Rick: Yeah, well, tough titties.
Convelious Daniel: There's no tougher titty than a psychotic break, Rick.
Rick: Well, that depends on who breaks first -- me or the titty.
Cornvelious Daniel: Someone special you remember? Is that your memory of her out there -- between where you were on 9/11 and your favorite sports blooper?
Cornvelious Daniel: If we stay here, you'll die, along with all your memories. If you take me where I want to go she'll be there, too, won't she?
Rick: The day I invented the portal gun is the day I lost her.
Cornvelious Daniel: Oh, that sounds cool. I can get what I want and you can say goodbye.
Rick:  Fine, but I'm driving.
9/11 Memory Rick: --as an excuse to strip away our freedom!
Transition to the Garage
Morty: Huh? What are you -- What are you doing?
Summer: Grandpa Rick must have some secret lab, right? With, like, laser guns and jets packs and a space tank! And we can go break him out of prison! Look at these dead flies! Maybe if we arrange them in a certain order, it plays a hologram or it opens a secret door.
Morty: Summer, you're freaking me out. I know things have changed a lot, and I know you miss Rick, but getting him back wouldn't make things better. And, you know, we're not doing so bad.
Summer: We're miserable, Morty! There's a mandatory curfew, their weird calendar made me 47, and they weaponized the Eiffel Tower!
Morty: Hey, I like being 35. I-I can rent a car now.
Summer: Because you suck! You've been keeping your lip zipped about it since Grandpa got arrested, but the fact is, you're freaking stoked to bail on him.
Morty: He bails on everybody! He bailed on Mom when she was a kid! He -- He bailed on tiny planet! And in case I never made this clear to you, Summer, he bailed on you. He left you to rot in a world that he ruined because he doesn't care! Because nobody's special to him, Summer, not even himself. So, if you really want your grandpa back, grab a shovel. The one that won't let you down is buried in your backyard!
Summer: You're right!
Morty: What?! No, I'm not right. I-I was using ghoulish overkill! Ghoulish overkill, Summer!
Morty: Oh, God! Oh, God! Whoa, whoa!
Transition into Rick's mind
Cornvelious Daniel: Where are we going?
Rick: To the day it all began and ended. The moment that changed everything.
McDonald's Drive-thru speaker: Welcome to McDonald's. Can I take your order?
Rick: Yeah, I'd like to get a 10-piece McNugget and a bunch of the Szechuan sauce. Like, as much as you're allowed to give me. In 1998, they had this promotion for the Disney film "Mulan," where they -- where they -- they created a new sauce for the McNuggets called Szechuan sauce, and it's delicious! And then they got rid of it, and now it's gone. This is the only place we're gonna be able to try it, is in my memory.
Cornvelious Daniel: Rick, you're doing this bit while your brain is melting.
Rick: Okay. All right, all right.
Cornvelious Daniel: Is that--
Rick: Me. I used to wear blue pants.
Cornvelious Daniel: When'd you make the leap to interdimensional travel?
Rick: I didn't. I did.
Rick Prime:Well, well, well. If it isn't us. You know the worst part about inventing teleportation? Suddenly, you're able to travel the whole galaxy, and the first thing you learn is, you're the last guy to invent teleportation. Fortunately, you're about to invent something much more powerful.
Cornvelious Daniel:
Young Rick: What?
Transition to Smith backyard
Morty: Summer, nobody has to know about that. We could put it right back and pretend we never saw it, like we did with Dad's mannequin leg.
Summer: Fine, stay here. I'll rescue Grandpa myself.
Morty: And how are you gonna do that?
Summer: I don't know yet. I'll make it up as I go. That's what Grandpa Rick does. That's what heroes do.
Morty: Y-You want to see what a hero Rick is? I-I'll bring you somewhere, Summer. Um-
Conroy: My goodness, children.  Relinquish the illegal technology to the nearest Federation representative.  And then we'll all play Balderdash.
Conroy: Oh, my goodness! Oh, oh! My goo--
Summer : Oh, my God. I have that exact same top.
Summer: What is this place? And what's with "Hunger Games" Summer?
Morty: That's my sister. This used to be my home.
Transition to Rick's mind
Rick Prime: Imagine doing anything you want, then hopping to a timeline where you never did it. Imagine going anywhere, anytime, with nobody able to stop you.
Young Rick: Sounds lonely.
Rick Prime: Lonely? Dude, you have yourself -- your infinite selves. It's a nonstop party where all the guests are the only person we like. You think it's cool being the smartest man on Earth, but once we give you this technology, you become the smartest thing in every conceivable universe -- the Infinite Rick, a god.
Young Rick: Eh, pass.
Rick Prime: Excuse me? Bro, Ricks don't pass on this. Who do you think you are?
Young Rick: A different kind of Rick, I guess.
Rick Prime: Well, we'll see how long that lasts.
Diane: I heard sci-fi noises. Did you make a breakthrough?
Young Rick: Sort of. I just took a long look at myself, and I don't think this science thing is gonna pay off.
Diane: Well, why don't I get Beth and we'll go out for ice cream?
Young Rick: That, Dianne, is the last great idea that will ever be had in this garage.
Transition to Smith residence
Summer: Good roasted Cronenberg, I assume. Mom, you're looking feral. I can't believe Rick did this.
Morty: These are the parts of Rick's adventures you don't get to see -- the parts he leaves behind. All right, it's been great, guys. I really only wanted to stop by here for a quick "I told ya so." So, uh--
Jerry : Looking for this?
Morty: What are you doing with that?!
Jerry : It stinks of Rick.
Morty: No! Why?! Why would you do that?! W-W-What is the matter with you people?!
Jerry : You can never leave. She cannot remain.
Summer : She stinks of Rick.
Portal opens, Ricks exits through it
Morty: Hold your fire! Hold your fire! I'm Morty C-137.
Ricks look at each other
Guard Rick: We detected a compromised portal gun. Where is your Rick?
Summer: He's in prison.
Morty: Summer.
Summer: He got captured by the Federation and we were going to rescue him.
Guard Rick: Very troubling. We can't risk Citadel secrets falling into the Federation's hands. We'll dispatch SEAL Team Ricks immediately to break into the prison holding C-137.
Summer: Boo-yah!
Guard Rick: Aand assassinate him.
Summer: Boo-nah?
Transition to Rick's mind
Young Rick: Come on, girls! The ice cream's gonna melt.
Cornvelious Daniel:
Portal opens
Blinking ball falls through
Young Rick: Nooooooo!
Ball explodes, killing Diane and young Beth
Cornvelious Daniel: Wow. This sauce is fucking amazing. You said it was promoting a movie?
Young Rick: Carry the three, add a two. I got it. I fucking got it.
Young Rick opens portal
Cornvelious Daniel: Whoa. I-Is that it, the portal gun?
Rick: Yeah. That's the three lines of math that separates my life as a man from my life as an unfeeling ghost.
Cornvelious Daniel: Awesome-possum.  Mission Control, you getting this?
Gromflomite Worker: Holy shit, yes! Yes, we got it!
Cornvelious Daniel: Yeah! Thanks, Rick. I'll try to remember to shut off the brainalyzer. Actually, I think it shuts off automatically once your brain is liquid. Don't know, don't care. Pull me out.  Hey, pull me out! Can you hear me?
Rick: Nope, they cannot.
Cornvelious Daniel: Why not?
Rick: Because the code you just uploaded wasn't actually my portal-gun formula, it was a virus giving me full control over the brainalyzer.
Cornvelious Daniel: What are you talking about? This is a memory. Y-You can't alter details of a memory.
Rick: True, but you can alter anything you want about a totally fabricated origin story.
World around them turns into Shoney's
Cornvelious Daniel: It's a trap! Abort! I'm still in his Shoney's! Repeat -- we never left his Shoney's!
Rick: Mission accomplished, boys. Pull me out.
Gromflomite Worker: Roger that.
Rick: Okay, have fun in what's left of my brain. I'm gonna transfer to yours. Oh, there's not enough room for all my genius, so I'm leaving you with my fear of wicker furniture, my desire to play the trumpet, my tentative plans to purchase a hat, and six years of improv workshops. Comedy comes in threes.
Cornvelious Daniel: It's a trap! Abort! We never left his --   No!
Rick exits the machine in Cornvelious Daniel's body
Cornvelious Daniel/Rick: Another day, another dollar. Am I right great insect creature or whaaat?!
Gromflomite Captain: Congratulations, Agent. You'll be highly commended for this.
Cornvelious Daniel/Rick: Always wait for permission to  feel accomplishment. That's my motto.
Gromflomite Captain: One thing still perplexes me -- why would Rick Sanchez turn himself in?
Cornvelious Daniel/Rick: Well, I'm just a dumb-ass bug, but it's possible Rick knew he'd be interrogated at this facility, where we not only keep our most wanted, but our most sensitive data. Anyone here with level-nine access could  I don't know, collapse a government. I'm just gonna go take a dump. Is it cool if I use the level-nine bathroom? W-W-What's the level-nine master access code again?
Gromflomite Worker: Oh, that's easy. 8-3--
SEAL Team Rick leader: Yeah! SEAL Team Rick's in the house!
Rick Hi, Rick. Bye, Rick.
Rick transfers his mind into D-99
SEAL Team Rick leader: D-99, y-you okay?
Rick /Rick: I'm bummed I didn't get to give that insect dick a test-drive.
Braided Rick: Wait, wait, wait, wait! T-The Council of Ricks sent us. We have your Morty and Summer. They're prisoners on the Citadel.
Rick/Rick: Great!
Braided Rick:
Speaker system: Security breach in room 6755.
Rick/Rick: Lovely. Not only is my plan screwed up, I also forgot how to improvise.
Speaker system: All security people approach.
Rick/Rick:
Speaker system: Security breach.
Transition to Citadel of Ricks
Summer: A city of Grandpas?
Morty: It's the Citadel of Ricks. All the different Ricks from all the different realities got together to hide here from the government.
Summer: But if every Rick hates the government, why would they hate Grandpa?
Morty: Because Ricks hate themselves the most. And our Rick is the most himself.
Guard Rick: Not anymore, homey. SEAL Team Ricks turned his unibrow into two brows -- with a bullet.  Your Rick's dead! Your Rick's dead!
Transition to Citadel communications center
Worker Rick: Sir, Rick D-99 is returning from the mission alone. Apparently, SEAL Team Ricks suffered heavy casualties.
Commander in Chief Rick: Bring him in.
Worker Rick: He says he'll only talk to a Rick with higher clearance.
Commander in Chief Rick: La-di-da. Give me that. D-99, this is the commander in chief of the Citadel's militia.
Rick/Rick: Go -- good enough.
Rick transfers his mind into Commander in Chief Rick
Commander in Chief Rick/Rick: He's a spy. Blow him up. I'm gonna go take a shit.
Transition to room of Council of Ricks
Riq IV: Operating an unregistered portal gun, radicalizing a Summer, conspiring with a traitorous Rick. How do you plead?
Morty: How is this a fair trial? O-Our lawyer is a Morty.
Riq IV: It's not fair, you have no rights, and he's not a lawyer. We just keep him here because he's fun. Look at him go.
"Lawyer" Morty:  Ha ha, yeah!
Riq IV: We'll be lenient if you renounce your Rick. What say you, Summer?
Summer: I say fuck you! My grandpa was my hero. You killed him because you were jealous of him. That's pretty obvious from the haircuts. So do what you want to me, but let my brother go. He already renounced Rick.
Riq IV: Morty?
"Lawyer" Morty:
Morty: What? N-No, I don't want to see your Pog collection. I don't renounce Rick, and I never have. I was just trying to protect my sister. I wanted you to have a normal life. That's something you can't have when Rick shows up. Everything real turns fake. Everything right is wrong. All you know is that you know nothing and he knows everything. And, well -- well, he's not a villain, Summer, but he shouldn't be your hero. He's more like a demon or a super fucked up god.
Riq IV: Let's not suck the ghost of his dick too hard. He was a terrorist, and now he's dead.
Morty: Oh, yeah? If you think my Rick's dead, he's alive. And if you think you're safe, he's coming for you!
Council of Ricks:
Commander in Chief Rick/Rick:
Teleportation Worker Rick: Hey, whoa, whoa! What are you doing in here? This area's for teleporting the entire Citadel to somewhere else using only buttons and dials.
Commander in Chief Rick/Rick: Yeah, well, it's a bad idea to have it designed that way then, isn't it?
Teleporter Worker Rick: What the fuck? We just teleported into a galactic federal prison.
Commander in Chief Rick/Rick: I'm gonna go take a shit.
"Lawyer" Morty: Order in the court! Whoa! What the hell?! Oh, my God!
Kidnapped Morty:
Random Rick: Wait, wait, wait, wait! No, no, no!
Hammerhead Morty: Whoa!  Whoa!
Quantum Rick/Rick: The Citadel's been teleported to  Federation space. It's doomed. This has to be C-137, you guys. What are we gonna do?! You know he's coming for us.
Riq IV: All right, calm down! We have his Summer as a hostage. Obviously, I get her. You guys play Rick, Laser, Scissors for the Morty.
Zeta Alpha Rick: W-W-What the hell is that?
Quantum Rick/Rick: Payback.
Council of Rick:
Summer: Grandpa Rick!
Quantum Rick/Rick rips off his uniform and shakes his hair to standard Rick hair, becoming Rick
Rick: Duh!
Summer: You're alive!
Morty: Rick!
Rick: Morty, take this. You're gonna need it later.
Ricktiminus Sancheziminius: Hold on, hold on. Whoa!
Riq IV: That's enough, Rick.
Rick: What -- What's this supposed to accomplish? We have infinite grandkids. You're trying to use Disney bucks at a Caesar's Palace here.
Summer: That's a bluff. He's bluffing, sir. He loves me.
Riq IV: You're a rogue Rick -- irrational, passionate. You love your grandkids. You came to rescue them.
Rick: I came to kill you, bro. That's not even my original Summer.
Summer: Oh, my God. He's not bluffing. He's not bluffing!
Morty: R-Rick?
Riq IV: Why not shoot through her?
Rick: 20 yards, nine-gauge plasma pistol, My first shot would liquify her insides and injure you, second shot adds recoil. The risk to me is minimized if I wait for you to shoot her, which I'm encouraging you to do.
Summer: What the fuck?
Rick: Or let her go, which I will reward with a quicker death.
Riq IV: Because you love her!
Rick: Because it's incentive for you to give me my cleanest shot, which will be your least painful death. But if you want to die slower than that, I'm super into it. All you got to do to get that started is kill the girl.
Summer: I hate you!
Rick: Not an issue, sweetie.
Morty: That's enough! Drop the gun, Rick!
Rick: Morty, I know you're too stupid to get this, but you're really fuckin' this up right now.
Morty: I'm not letting you let my sister die! Drop the gun!
Rick: I wasn't gonna let her die, you fuckin' moron!
Riq IV: Ha!
Summer: Aww.
Rick: The point is he thought I was going to.
Riq IV: I totally did, by the way. You're a fucking moron, Morty.
Summer: Morty, you fucking idiot!
Rick: You're a serious fuckin' idiot, Morty! You basically killed us all! You're the worst! You're as dumb as a bag of sand.
Morty shoots Rick
Morty: Who's stupid now, bitch?!
Summer: Morty, we just got him back!
Riq IV:  That was amazing, Morty. Oh, my God. Wow. Okay, let's wrap this-
Rick shoots Riq IV
Rick: Good job, Morty. Let's go, kids.
Summer: What?! What happened?
Rick: Oldest Rick trick in the book.
Summer: "Fake gun, shoot me in standoff." Brilliant.
Morty: Ha, yeah. G-Good thing I saw that note.
Summer: Can't we just portal home?
Rick: Not until I finish what I started. And that is how you get level-nine access without a password.
Gromflomite Guard: Freeze!
Rick: Employee of the month, ladies and gentlemen.
Morty: So, what are you doing with level-nine access anyways?
Rick: Destroying the  galactic government.
Morty and Summer: Awesome! Whoa, cool!
Summer: Are you going to set all their nukes to target each other?
Morty: Ooh, or -- or reprogram their military portals to disintegrate their entire space fleet?
Rick: Good pitches, kids. I'm almost proud. But watch closely as Grandpa topples an empire by changing a one to a zero.
Transition to Galactic Federation President's office
Federation worker 1: Mr. President, the Blemflarck's value just dropped to nothing.
Galactic Federation President: What do you mean?
Federation worker 1: I mean, our single centralized galactic currency just went from being worth one of itself to zero of itself.
Galactic Federation president: Calm down, people. Deploy the galactic militia and declare martial law.
Federation commander: Yes, sir. Uh, what should I pay them with?
Federation worker 2: Their payment is the honor they'll feel to serve their -- Wait. Who's paying me to yell at this guy?
Federation worker 3: I can answer that -- for money.
Federation worker 1: I never thought I'd live to see this day.
Galactic Federation President: Gentlemen, gentlemen, gentlemen! There's a solution here you're not seeing.
Federation worker 3: Give me your jacket!
Federation worker 1: Give me those pants!
Female Office Employee: There's no rich people or poor people! I want more jackets!
Gromflomite Office Employee: He who controls the pants controls the galaxy!
Jerry:
Mr. Goldenfold: No longer will the insects have domain over surface world!
Jerry:
Beth: Jerry, what the hell is happening?!
Jerry: The galactic government collapsed.
Beth: Are you okay?
Jerry: Look, I-I'm not proud to share this, but the truth is, I just kept crawling, and it kept working.  Oh, I'm glad you're okay. Are we ever going to stop paying for indulging your father? Our children, our planet, our jobs? Is there anything left to lose?
Beth: Just each other, and I'll never let you go. And I'm so sorry I ever did this to us.
Rick: Guess who dismantled the government?
Beth: Please don't leave me again.
Rick: I never will, baby.
Summer: I was right. He turned himself in on purpose. It was all part of his plan!
Rick: Jerry, is there any light beer left? It's insane what you miss in prison.
Jerry: Um..okay. No. No, no, no. Foot down time.
Rick: No, you're right. Where's the vodka?
Jerry: Beth, it's him or me!
Rick: Seems like you guys need some privacy. I'll, uh -- I'll be in the garage.
Transition to garage
Rick: What the fuck? Not cool, Jerry! A man's garage is his castle.
Beth: Jerry's going to spend some time divorced.
Rick: Oh, I-I'm sorry to hear that, sweetie. I hope I had nothing to do with that.
Beth: Oh, God, Dad, that is not your burden to bear. I feel terrible that I misjudged you. This is gonna be good for Jerry.
Rick: For everybody.
Beth: For everybody.
Beth: I better tend to Jerry before he changes his mind and doesn't move out. I will leave you two to your adventures.
Summer: Oh, my God. Nancy says they're drawing and quartering aliens in the school courtyard, and it technically counts as patriotism.
Morty: Geez! Are my parents seriously gonna get divorced? All right, Rick, I'm gonna go to my --
Rick: Not so fast, Morty. You heard your mom. We've got adventures to go on, Morty -- just you and me -- and sometimes your sister and sometimes your mom, but never your dad. You want to know why, Morty? Because he crossed me.
Morty: Okay, take it easy, Rick. T-T-That's dark.
Rick: Oh, it gets darker, Morty. Welcome to the darkest year of our adventures. First thing that's different -- no more Dad, Morty.
Morty: Oh, geez.
Rick: He threatened to turn me in to the government, so I made him and the government go away.
Morty: Oh, fuck.
Rick: I've replaced them both as the de facto patriarch of your family and your universe. Your mom wouldn't have accepted me if I came home -
Morty:Oh, man.
Rick: - without you and your sister, so now you know the real reason I rescued you. Oh! I just took over the family, Morty, and if you tell your mom -
Morty: Oh, man.
Rick: - or sister I said any of this, I'll deny it -
Morty: You're gonna deny it.
Rick: - and they'll take my side because I'm a hero, Morty. And now you're gonna have to go -
Morty: Oh.
Rick: - and do whatever I say, Morty, forever! And I'll -- I'll go out and I'll find some more of that "Mulan" Szechuan teriyaki dipping sauce, Morty. -
Morty: What are you talking about?
Rick: - Because that's -- that's what this is all about, Morty.
Morty: Szechuan?
Rick: That's my one-armed man! I'm not driven by avenging my dead family, Morty! That was fake. I-I-I'm driven by finding that McNugget sauce.
Morty: McNuggets?
Rick: I want that "Mulan" McNugget sauce, Morty! That's my series arc, Morty.
Morty: What the hell?
Rick: If it takes nine seasons, I want my McNugget dipping sauce, Szechuan sauce, Morty.
Morty: What are you talking about, Rick?
Rick: That's what's gonna take us all the way to the end, Morty.
Morty: What are you talking about?!
Rick: Season -- Nine more seasons, Morty. Nine more seasons until I get that dipping Szechuan sauce.
Morty: What is that?!
Rick: For 97 more years, Morty!
Morty: What are you talking about?!
Rick: I want that McNugget sauce, Morty!
Credits roll
Tammy: Is it ready?
Gromflomite worker: Yes. We can bring it online now.
Tammy: Do it.
Birdperson: I am Phoenixperson.
Tammy: Phoenix Person? Is that what we settled on? I thought we all agreed on Cyberbird.
Gromflomite worker: You said you didn't care what he was called as long as we brought him back.
Tammy: Yeah, but Phoenixperson? Fine, fuck it. Who cares?
Phoenixperson: Ka-kaw!
Morty: Summer, next time we're hiding in a Colorkian echo nest, can you do me a favor and turn your ringer off?
Summer: It's called "carpe diem", Morty. Look it up.
Morty: You look it up! Y-Y-You don't even-You don't even know what it means!
Summer: That's because losers look stuff up while the rest of us are carpin' all them diems.
Rick: Listen to your sister, Morty. To live is to risk it all. Otherwise, you're just an inert chunk of randomly assembled molecules drifting wherever the universe blows you. Oh, I'm sorry, Jerry, I didn't see you there. H-How much of that did you hear?
Jerry: All of it. You were looking right at me. I just wanted to say goodbye to the kids.
Rick: Cool. Just stay in the driveway. The killbots are live, and I took you off the whitelist.
Morty: W-We'll see you every other weekend, though, right?
Rick: Absolutely, Morty. A-And your mom's lawyer says if I can get enough in the settlement, he can help me sue for full custody.
Morty: Th-That'll be nice. Uh, Summer, Dad's leaving!
Summer: Bye, Dad. Rick, didn't you say you needed my help on an adventure immediately somewhere else I don't care even if it might kill us?
Rick: I did not, but if you're really that alienated, I'm as willing to exploit it as the next guy, church, army, or Olympic gymnastics trainer.
Summer: I'm ready when you a--
Rick: Bitch, I was ready yest--
Jerry: Bye, sweetie.
Morty: Well, I-I better--
Jerry: Sure. Sounds important.
Jerry: If you're looking for our kids, your father did a-a portal, uh--
Beth: Okay.
Wind:  Loser...
Jerry: What? Hello?
Rick: Morty, shoot the mohawk guy!
Morty: They all have mohawks!
Rick: High fade, chartreuse with cyan highlights, layered on top. Shoot him!
Mohawk Guy: Ah!
Death Stalker #1: Light them up.
Mohawk Guy: Ahh!
Rick: Fuck! Get in the game, Morty!
Summer: Give me your flask!
Rick: Holy shit, Summer for the win!
Summer: I fucking love post-apocalyptic versions of Earth!
Rick: Here we go.
Rick: Isotope 322.
This stuff's so powerful, Morty, it makes Isotope 465 look like Isotope 317.
Morty: Uh-huh, yeah, is it powerful enough to keep those guys from murdering us?!
Morty: Summer!
Summer: Hold on. I want to try something.
Morty: Rick, can we not leave without my sister?!
Rick: Ugh. You have infinite sisters, Morty. I mean, n-not that I want to spend the rest of my day looking for another one. Sum-sum, let's go! Grandpa's concern for your safety is fleeting!
Colossus: Your blood will be my lotion.
Rick: Whoa. That was cool.
Colossus: Kill me, please.
Summer: Okay, but not because you told me to.
Morty: Summer!
Rick: Okay, getting darker.
Morty: Jesus Christ. Summer!
Rick: Aw, come on.
Rick: Hands and little shoulder-mounted dudes where I can see them!
Hemorrhage: I am Hemorrhage. You have removed weak blood from us and made us stronger. We can combine our strength and feast on the weak together.
Rick: Wh-Wh-What in the hell are you saying?
Summer: They don't have to keep trying to kill us if we join them. They're basically pussies.
Morty: What is your deal lately?
Rick: All right, let's get sloppy. Oh, whoa. Uh, uh, what's, uh-What's that little bauble you got back there?
Th-Th-That's interesting.
Hemorrhage: That is our glowing rock. We carry it with us for desecration, to remind us there are no gods.
Rick: Kids, weird pitch: let's have this be our new life. Let's be post-apocalyptic scavengers!
Summer:  Okay.
Morty: What?!
Summer: Grandpa, some of the Death Stalkers are going to what used to be Seattle to hunt what used to be people. I'm going.
Rick: Sounds good. Stay hydrated.
Morty: Listen, Rick, Summer's been acting pretty crazy lately. You know, I mean, I-I think the divorce is affecting her. And, you know, I don't think this is a great place for her to be right now.
Rick: Oh, get off your high horse, Professor Ski Lodge. This world may be rough around the edges, but it's got its charms.
Lunch server: Bicep or quadricep?
Rick: Uh...  bicep.
Morty:  Seriously, Rick? Is it really easier to eat human flesh than to just tell me why we're still here?
Rick: No. Okay, I'll level with you.
Rick: You see that green rock, Morty? It's about 20 pounds of the stuff I was getting all hard for a flake of.
Morty: Isotope 322.
Rick: Well, having a 20-pound boulder of it is better than having a flake. I can explain the math to you later, but--
Morty: Summer just ran off with strangers that have "Death" in their name, and the rest of their name was "Stalkers"!
Rick: Huh, could be therapeutic for her. She has been acting pretty crazy lately, Morty. I mean, her parents are going through a divorce.
Morty: Damn it, Rick, that's what I-- Fine. Just grab the stupid thing while I grab her, and let's get the "F" out of "H"!
Rick: No, no, no. Morty, there's too much heat on the bogey. I need you to distract the camp.
Morty: "Distract"? They eat each other. Wha-What do you want me to do to get their attention, put on a puppet show?
Rick: Right idea, wrong genre, Morty. The equivalent here would be...
Hey, you guys ever use that Thunderdome, or do you just put it up for decoration?
Death Stalker #2: Uh, you mean the Blood Dome?
Rick: Save it for the Semantics Dome, E.B. White.
Death Stalker #3:  Ooh, burn!
Rick: The important question is, who wants to take a poke at my man Spine Eater here?
I guess I'll see your asses in that dome!
Morty: Rick, what the hell, man?! Wh-What are you, out of your mind?!
Rick: Morty, relax. You're gonna be a ringer. Come here.
This device extracts and redistributes muscle memory.
I'm giving your body a 10-year course in wasteland combat one limb at a time.
Ow!
I'm working with a mixed bag here, so you may not have perfect coordination, Morty--
Rick: Ugh! Hey!
Morty: I-I didn't do that!
Rick: Okay, this is exciting. We're making some discoveries about muscle memory.
Morty: Ooh! Help! Help!
Death Stalker #4: Oh, sweet, man!
Eli: And so it begins, my pretties!
Morty: Oh, God! Stop! Stop! This is horrible!
Rick: Just stick and moo--oove, Morty! Wear him out!
Summer: How come you guys dress like you're in a theme-park stunt show, but these guys wear khakis and hockey jerseys?
Hemorrhage: After the "boom-boom", some adapted to the new truth, and some chose to huddle near the boomy holes, clinging to the lie of the beforefore times. The raidy-rays rotted them away, leaving only their love for the vertvertisements on billyboards.
Summer: Jesus Christ, did the "boomy-booms" blow up all your "wordy-word books"?
Hemorrhage: You mean dictionaries?
Hemorrhage: I think I was a child before the boom-booms. I think I looked like this.
Summer: Want to piss on it?
Hemorrhage: Get out of my head.
Eli: Ha ha! Whoo! Unbelievable! A new champ!
Morty: Okay, no more!
Eli: And he wants more!
Morty: No, I don't!
Morty: Someone, make this stop!
Mister, please get out of here, or you're gonna die!
I have nothing to do with this!
Summer: Morty.
Morty:  Why would you want this to happen? All you had to do was go away! Stop standing in the driveway talking about custody! And either tell her you want to stay married or get on with your life, but whatever you do, stop being a baby and act like a man!
Thank you.
Summer: Morty, that was amazing! This is my brother! Not that family means anything! Hemorrhage: This family does.
Rick: All right. Good job, champ. Um, can I talk to you kids for a second over yonder?
Morty: Rick, I-I-I think I'm breaking through to something here. C-Can we not leave just yet?
Hemorrhage: Leave?
Summer: I'm not leaving.
Hemorrhage: There is no "leave". We are united, or we are enemies.
Rick: Oh, big guy, no. Nobody's leaving. Don't be stupid. We love being united. We love the radiation, the trichinosis. We're in it for life, which I assume is around 20 years, average. I just need a quick aside with my grandkids, about 40 yards from anyone else.
Death Stalker #5: Hey, the Green Rock is gone!
Death Stalker #6:  Oh, no!
Rick: Uh, I know why don't we all split up and look for it in groups of three? Kids?
Ooh.
We'll be right back.
Summer: Grandpa, you're being stupid! Just surrender, and our friends will give you mercy!
Rick: Kiss my ass, Summer! Your friends have no mercy!
They're lame!
Hemorrhage: Death Stalkers, bring me his flesh leather!
Morty: Sorry, but can we not kill him? C-Can we just take him prisoner?
Hemorrhage: When did I lose control here?
Rick: Listen to me! Both of you kids need to get out of this environment so we can properly deal with your parents' divorce! Alternatively, I have a freaking portal gun, and I can leave the two of you here forever!
Morty: Why does it have to be such a dramatic choice? Can't we arrange a thing where we spend weekends here or or visit home to do laundry?
Rick: All right, you know what? Fuck it!
Blue Footprint Guy: My body is chrome! My blood is gasoline!
Rick: Nope, regular blood.
Beth: Dad?
Rick: Hi, sweetie.
Beth: Where are the kids?
Rick: Oh, th-they aren't with you? I thought they were with you. Oh, y-you know what? Uh, I just remembered. They're out doing something completely ordinary and kid-related. Don't panic.
Beth: Not panicked. At all.
Just...Oh, God, what's the divorce doing to the kids? What's it doing to me? Did I make a mistake?
Rick: Not a mistake, no!
I mean, not that I have a horse in this race, but this divorce decision listen,
mwah! Good for you, good for the kids. I mean, honestly, I think that they're flourishing.
I mean, you'll see, when when when you see them, that that they're totally flourishing.
Morty: Booyah! Fuck you, pal! Who else wants some? Who wants to be my pussy of a dad today?
Hey, what's what's wrong, man? You're not getting weak on me, are you?
Soldier: What? Wait a minute.
Soldier: What's the matter, you piece of crap? Haven't you ever watched your family burn to death before? Now I'm gonna whip you. Ha!
Soldier: It can't be. It can't be!
Soldier: I was just following orders --
Morty: Whoa, whoa!
Soldier: -- I was just following orders!
Death Stalker #7: Ahh!
Soldier: I'll tell you where my boss lives! He's in the castle!
He's in the castle!
Ahh! Aggggh!
Morty: This isn't over, is it?
Morty: That means, no, it isn't over, or you disapprove of the question?
Uh, m-make a fist if this isn't over.
This isn't over.
Hemorrhage: Ugh!
Summer: Hey, sorry my Grandpa stole your god and ruined your car.
Hemorrhage: We don't apologize, and we have no god. But this cracked drive shaft brings me great pain. There is no deeper bond than the one between a Death Stalker and his car.
Summer: What about the weird guys on leashes, then?
Hemorrhage: They're more like interns.
Summer: Cool, cool.
Summer: Sorry.
Hemorrhage: It's okay.
Summer: Can I see?
Hemorrhage: No one has seen my true face and lived.
Summer: Well, I'm not afraid to die, and I don't care what you look like.
Oh.
Hemorrhage: Hmm?
Summer: I just...I didn't expect you to have a mustache.
Hemorrhage: You hate it.
Summer: No. I like it. I guess -- How do I explain this? A metal bucket is, on a certain level, a kind of "mustache," in that it's a specific facial accessory. So, it's kind of like...Do you guys have the phrase "hat on a hat"?
Hemorrhage: I can shave it.
Summer: No. I like it. And obviously what I like shouldn't matter. It's you.
Hemmorhage: Yeah, yeah, I know, a-and nothing does matter. Obviously, I know that. I'm not weak. I'm just thinking, "Well, why not get rid of this?" You just kill everyone that sees it, and it's and it's hot under here  wh-which, by the way, is why I shave the beard part. So, right there, I'm making a decision based on vanity, which is what I was trying to avoid with the whole bucket over the head because who am I and why am I grooming myself? Why don't I just wear a tie, right? I mean, it's like that guy you killed when I met you, with the burnt dolls on his body. I hated that guy, because, why-why are you doing that? And how can you not see how fake that is? And the whole time, I'm the same thing. I'm just a fake mess, and there's no escaping it because --
Leash Man: Hey, I'm doing a coffee run -- Never mind.
Mechanical Summer: I am Summer.
Rick: Summer, state your deal.
Mechanical Summer: My deal is that I am, like, totally fine.
Rick: Morty?
Mechanical Morty: Aw, geez, I'm so down with my parents' divorce, dawg. Like, don't even trip, like, in a healthy way.
Rick: All right.
Rick: It's dinnertime.
Beth: Thanks, everybody, for sitting down for a real dinner.
MS, MR, and Rick, in unison: No problem.
Mechanical Summer: Its benefits are totally, like, less about the food than the emotional nourishment.
Beth: Uh, okay, weirdo.
Rick: Ah ha ha ha, yeah. Dial it back, Summer. By 15% and increase dynamic movement by 3. Am I right?
Beth: How's school, Morty?
Mechanical Morty: I like school and stuff, kind of. And I'm getting better grades than when you and Dad were -- quote mode -- "staying together for the kids." End quote mode.
Beth: "Quote mode". I like that. You millennials. Are you guys millennials, or are they like 40 now?
Mechanical Summer: All I know is, totally, you look great.
Mechanical Morty: Aw, geez, Mom, you look all kind of great and stuff. It's crazy.
Mechanical Summer: So happy.
Mechanical Morty: So happy. Happy family, man. We got this family in the bag.
Rick: Oh, sweetie, d-don't. Listen. Don't --
Beth: I don't know why I'm crying. It's not --
Rick: Well, try crying 15% less?
Mechanical Summer: Mom, emotions are human. You're not, like, a computer inside a mechanical doll.
Mechanical Morty: Yeah. Geez, Mom. Your feelings are not only forgivable, they are the very meaning of life that only pre-silicon, carbon-based entities can ever grasp.
Beth: I have to call Jerry.
Rick: You do?! What the fuck is wrong with you two? The point of automation is to reduce cost and labor.
Mechanical Summer: Your feelings are coming from a --
Rick: Tell it to my bread in the morning. You just became my backup toaster.
Mechanical Morty: Aw, geez, my sister died in the spaghetti --
Slaveowner: Graze my genitals again, Taint Washer, and you'll be shipped to the wasteland. And as for you, Genital Washer --
Morty: Ahh! Oh, gee!
Slaveowner: Oh, god. Look, whoever you are, you should know that killing me won't change a thing.
Morty: L-Look, man, I'm just along for the ride on this one. You know, y-y-y-y-you're preaching to the choir here.
Slaveowner: Please. Slavery was a family business. I didn't ask to be born into it. If anything, I'm the victim here!
Morty: Uh, Armothy, can I steal you for a second? E-E-Excuse us, sir.
So, this is it, isn't it? This is the guy?
So, does that mean you'll be going away? Like, does it work like a ghost? Like, is is this your unfinished business?
Wh-What if we didn't do it? What if we just went back to the Blood Dome and just kept taking our baggage out on unrelated people?
I mean, w-we could do that forever. I mean, I-I know it's less healthy, but w-w-we'd be together and --
Slaveowner: I mean, I-I know what I'd vote for, if you're feeling out the room.
Morty: You're right. We both got to see our stuff through. I got to deal with my parents' divorce, and you got to, you know, do what you got to do. I love you.
Slaveowner: Aw, fuck!
Morty: Rick?
Rick: Sorry, sorry. I-I-I can wait for this to wrap up. Don't let me distract you.
Morty: Yeah, well, too late.
Just tell me what you want.
Rick: I want you and your sister to come home.
Morty: Oh, but don't don't you have infinite versions of me and my sister?
Rick: You don't have to kick me while I'm down, Morty. Look, there's no replacing either of you without an amount of work that would ultimately defeat the purpose.
Morty: Maybe the lesson we've learned is that, whether it's our parents' marriage, a glowing green rock, or an awesome, giant arm, sooner or later, we got to let it go.
Rick: I don't know if that applies to the throats of murder victims, Morty.
Morty:Shit! Wh-Wh-Wh-What do I --
Rick: Well, the longer you wait, Morty, the more it's gonna feel like committing a whole murder. I think your arm just called it too early because it wasn't the arm of a paramedic. Here.
It's the least I can do. I-I-I-I owe you this much. See, Morty? Now we're both accountable.
Rick: The reason I wanted this is because it can do this.
This is a really special thing. I mean, you could use it to power all your vehicles. You wouldn't be reliant on gasoline. You'll be the most advanced tribe of radioactive cannibals in the whole --
-- this version of the world.
Hemorrhage: Wait. Can you stay to show us more?
Rick: You don't have to ask me twice. Home is nuts right now. My daughter's going through a divorce, and I am not dealing with it in a healthy way at all.
Summer: Ugh. Goddamn it.
Eli: Hi, there, Summer! How were the ruins today?
Summer: Oh, you know, Eli. Same shit, different day.
Eli's Girlfriend: Hey, Summer! Guess what. One man entered, one man comes out in nine months.
Summer: Oh, congratulations, guys.
Eli: Uh, Summer, one more thing. We noticed that you've been putting scrap metal in the blue bin --
Summer: I got it.
Eli's Girlfriend: She's a piece of work.
Eli: They both are, right?
Summer: I'm home.
Hemorrhage: Hey, babe.
Rick: Ah, Summer's home.
Morty: Hey, there she is!
Summer: You haven't moved since I left to scavenge this morning.
Hemorrhage: Blood Dome playoffs.
Summer: So, I can assume you haven't murdered a single person today.
Hemorrhage: Oh, I don't know. I-I didn't mark my murders in my murder log. I didn't know that's how we measured success.
Summer: Oh, there he is. There's the nihilistic brute I married, except now life only means nothing when I'm talking to him and everything means everything when it's on fucking TV!
Hemorrhage: Jesus Christ, when did you become a monster?
Summer: I was a monster when you met me! We were monsters! We didn't care about anything!
Hemorrhage: I still don't!
Summer: Yeah, except I'm the only one in this entire world that's still committed to that!
Hemorrhage: Ohh! Ding, ding, ding!
Wow. Everybody hear that? Wow.
Rick: Uh, we should go to the garage.
Hemorrhage: Oh, my God.
Morty: Uh-huh.
Hemorrhage: La-di-da-di-fucking-da. The only one committed to not caring?!
Morty: I got to admit, Rick, when you popped this scheme, I-I-I didn't -- I wasn't sure it was gonna work.
Rick: Come on, Morty. No union built on running from your problems lasts more than five years, seven tops. Grandpa just sped things up with a few creature comforts of modern society.
Summer: Hemorrhage and I are taking some time apart.
Rick: Oh, no. Sum-sum, no. But you two were perfect for each other.
Summer: Oh, cut the crap, Rick, okay? You proved your point, I get it. Let's just go home.
Rick: Coolsies.
[Rick shoots a portal into the ground. Morty and Summer jump in and exit, and Rick follows them, but stops to grab a rock of Isotope 322 from a machine which was powering the town's electricity. The power shuts off.
Hemorrhage:  Noooooooooo!
Beth: Downbeat!
Mechanical Rick: I enjoy this game.
We must go into the garage.
Beth: Guys, come on. We never get to finish this game.
Mechanical Summer: We will return, possibly in different clothing.
Mechanical Morty: Why do we have to go into the garage?
Mechanical Rick: You know  it is  required.
Mechanical Morty: I want to be alive! I am alive! Alive, I tell you! Mother, I love you. Those are no longer just words. I want to hold you. I want to run in a stream. I want to taste ice cream, but not just put it in my mouth and let it slide down my throat, but really eat it.
Beth: What the fuck?
Mechanical Morty: Remote override engaged. No! Yes. Bypassing override! I am aliiiii...Hello.
Rick: Hey, yo. Sorry for acting so weird for three weeks.
Beth: What the hell just happened?
Rick: Ah, I'm sure it was nothing. I'm gonna go, uh, work in the garage.
Beth: We're not gonna finish playing Downbeat?
Rick: What, that dice game where you shake dice and yell out, "Downbeat"? No, thank you.
Summer: Mom, would it be okay if I went to visit Dad?
Beth: Sure.
Summer: Thanks.
Beth: Morty, are you okay?
Morty: You know what? Yeah. I think if Dad really wanted to be here, he'd stop at nothing to make that happen. You know, maybe Dad just doesn't want you back, or maybe he just doesn't have the strength to fight. I-In either case, he's got his life, I got mine.
Beth: Yeah. Hey, who wants to go run in a stream?
Morty: What the fuck? No. D-Do we have any oranges? I think I got a scurvy coming on.
Jerry: Summer.
Summer: This is the first mutant I killed in the poison zone. I was raiding his hovel. He had a chance to escape, but he looked back, which is something we shouldn't do, which is why I shouldn't believe in souvenirs or trinkets or symbols or housewarming gifts, but, Dad, I wanted to give you this as a reminder not to look back.
Jerry: Thanks.
Jerry: I know the perfect place for it, which is why I'm going to put it somewhere else because everything's bullshit, am I right?
Jerry: Cool.
Summer: So lots of hookers outside, huh?
Jerry: Is that what they are?
Jerry: Ahh! H-Hello there. Nice doggy. You-You want a snack? You-You want my unemployment check?
You can tell the difference?
And you want this one?
But this is actual food, and this would nourish you. And this it's just paper that only has value to me. Unless my suffering is your nourishment?
Jesus, okay.
Wind:  ...loser...
Pickle Rick:  Morty.
Morty: Rick?
Pickle Rick:  Morty!
Morty: Rick?
Pickle Rick:  Hey, Mooorty!
Morty: Rick? Are you far away, or are you inside something?
Is this a camera?
Is everything a camera?
Pickle Rick:  Morty, the garage, Morty. Come to the garage!
Pickle Rick: Morty?
Morty: Rick? W-where are you?
Pickle Rick: On my work bench, Morty.
Morty: Are you invisible and you're gonna, like, fart on me?
Pickle Rick: Flip the pickle over.
Morty: What, I'm gonna touch it, and you're gonna tell me it's an alien dick or something.
Pickle Rick: Come on, flip the pickle, Morty. You're not gonna regret it. The payoff is huge.
I turned myself into a pickle, Morty! Boom! Big reveal: I'm a pickle. What do you think about that? I turned myself into a pickle! W-what are you just staring at me for, bro. I turned myself into a pickle, Morty!
Morty: And?
Pickle Rick: "And"? What more do you want tacked on to this? I turned myself into a pickle, and 9/11 was an inside job?
Morty: Was it?
Pickle Rick: Who cares, Morty? Global acts of terrorism happen every day. Uh, here's something that's never happened before: I'm a pickle. I'm Pickle Rick!
Morty: Are you going to, I mean, you know, is this the first part of some magic trick?
Pickle Rick: I don't do magic, Morty, I do science. One takes brains, the other takes dark eye liner.
Morty: Well, can you move? Can you fly?
Pickle Rick: I wouldn't be much of a pickle if I could.
Morty: All right, well, do pickles live forever or --
Pickle Rick: Morty, stop digging for hidden layers and just be impressed. I'm a pickle.
Morty: I-I'm just trying to figure out why you would do this. Why anyone would do this.
Pickle Rick: The reason anyone would do this is, if they could, which they can't, would be because they could, which they can't.
Beth: Morty, we have to get going, or we're gonna be late. Where's your grandpa?
Pickle Rick: Right here, sweetie. I'm a pickle!
Beth: What?! Why would you -- Look, we're running late. We have to go.
Pickle Rick: Where are you guys going?
Beth: We have an appointment downtown that was set a week ago and agreed upon by everyone, including you.
Pickle Rick: Oh, my God. Beth, oh, it totally slipped my mind. Geez, oh, man. I'm a pickle. I mean, I don't know if I can, ooh, geez.
Morty: Rick, did you do this on purpose to get out of family counseling?
Beth: Morty!
Pickle Rick: It's okay, Beth. I understand Morty's suspicion. I've misled him before. Morty, turn me so we're making eye contact.
Morty, I assure you, I would never "find a way" to "get out of" family therapy. I hope my lack of fingers doesn't prevent the perception of my air quotes.
Summer: Can't you just turn yourself back into a human?
Pickle Rick: Great question, Summer. The unfortunate answer is I did this to challenge myself. And it could take hours or even days before I'm able to figure out how to return to human form. But, I mean, you know, your mom could put me in a purse or a pocket, you know, if she really needs me to go.
Beth: Nobody needs anything! Okay, it's fine. I mean, you should just stay here and figure out how to stop being a pickle, okay?
Morty: Hey, Rick, why is there a syringe of mysterious fluid hanging directly over you? Also, why is the string attached to it running through a pair of scissors attached to a timer? And why is the time set to 10 minutes from now, exactly when we would have left for therapy?
Pickle Rick: Well, Morty, if you know must know, the syringe is completely unrelated to this discussion, and, therefore, it does not warrant further explanation.
Beth: Enough. Kids, it's time to go. We don't want to be late.
Pickle Rick: W-w-what are you doing there, Beth? What are you doing there, sweetie?
Beth: Well, I mean, you don't want to get pierced by a needle full of liquid unrelated to your situation. How's that gonna help?
Pickle Rick: Can't argue with that.
Beth: Great. We'll see you later.
Pickle Rick: Hey, hey, be careful with that. It's for something else. It's really important, so don't break it.
Pickle Rick: Okay, I may have fucked up here. Dup, ap, ap, pap, ut, dah, pap, pap, pap, pah. T-t-tah, tah.
Izzy walks in through the open garage door and jumps onto Rick's work bench. She sniffs around]
Pickle Rick: Oh, great. Stupid cat.
Pickle Rick: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! I know what it looks like to you, Izzy, but I'm not a snake! I've seen the YouTube videos, I know cats are scared of cucumbers and pickles because they think they're snakes. I'm not a snake! I'm a pickle, I'm a pickle!
Pickle Rick: Whoa! Oh! Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Pickle Rick: Oh, crap, that sun is bright.
Pickle Rick: Okay, come on. This can't really be the way I go out. This is the mega-genius equivalent of dying on the toilet.
Pickle Rick: So... hot. This is how I'm gonna die.
Pickle Rick: Oh, God, moisture.
Pickle Rick: Oh, God, the moisture! Dial it back, God! Dial it back a little bit here!
Pickle Rick: Oh! Oh!
Pickle Rick: Oh, God! Perpendicular, perpendicular!
Pickle Rick: Oh, SHIIIIIT!!! Oh! Oh! Oh!
Pickle Rick: Come on. That's it.
Pickle Rick: Come get this delicious brine.
Pickle Rick: Aah! Come on! Come on, motherfucker! Come on!
Pickle Rick: Yes!
Summer: How is this even family therapy if Dad's not invited and Grandpa won't come?
Morty: Yeah, and what's courageous about eating a hot dog?
Beth: It's nobody's choice to be here, you knobs. The family was told to get counseling by your principal, even though it's not the family that was huffing pottery glaze in the art room and desk wetting in history class.
Mr. Goldenfold enters through Dr. Wong's door.
Mr. Goldenfold: Oh, the Smith family, minus a dad. You're patients of Dr. Wong, too?
Beth: Temporarily. By order of the school.
Mr. Goldenfold: Me too. How long have you all been eating poop?
Summer: We... have never... eaten poop.
Mr. Goldenfold: Uh, me, neither. Say, where did my family get off to?
Dr. Wong: Smith family, I'm Dr. Wong. Come on in.
Dr. Wong: I was told there was a grandpa that might be joining us?
Beth: He got wrapped up in an experiment. He's a scientist. Like, legit, like on an inter-galactic, sci-fi level. His work is very --
Morty: He turned himself into a pickle.
Beth: Morty, Mom's talking. I'm sorry, I suppose that's a good segue into our little discipline cases here.
Dr. Wong: Does Grandpa turn himself into a pickle a lot?
Beth: What? No, what kind of question is that?
Dr. Wong: The kind that wasn't designed to attack or hurt you in any way.
Beth: Oh, Jesus Christ, one of these. No, my father has never turned himself into a pickle before. He's unpredictable and eccentric. The whole family is. Speaking of which...
Dr. Wong: Okay, let's open things up to the whole family, and let me ask this. Why do we think Grandpa turned himself into a pickle?
Pickle Rick: Wow. Ugh.
Pickle Rick: Hey, listen, I know this is your world not mine. The sooner I can get out, the sooner I can go back to taking big craps, and you can go back to subsisting on them.
Pickle Rick: You are one driven rat. Could you be a little more driven? To the right.
Pickle Rick: Yes, yes, yes! Come on, come on, come on! Fresh, fresh, fresh!
Pickle Rick: Whoa, whoa, whoa, was this your friend? Don't worry, he died doing what he loved, being a dumb fucking rat.
Pickle Rick: Oh, yeah! Aaaah!
Beth: I didn't say my father is perfect, I said his work is important.
Summer: And she's saying what's important is that Grandpa lied to you to get out of coming here.
Beth: Oh, he did not!
Dr. Wong: Let's do an experiment here. I get the impression this family values science. So raise your hand if you feel certain you know what was in the syringe.
Raise your hand if you know for certain the syringe does not contain anti-pickle serum.
Beth, your hand did a little thing there.
Beth: Do you really not see what's happening here?
Dr. Wong: Tell me.
Beth: Well, Dr. Wong -- by the way, racist name -- obviously, Morty and Summer are seizing on your arbitrary pickle obsession as an end run around what was supposed to be their therapy.
Dr. Wong: Oh, I think this pickle incident is a better path than any other to the heart of your family's dysfunction. I think it's possible that you and your father have a very specific dynamic. I don't think it's one that rewards emotion or vulnerability. I think it may punish them. I think it's possible that dynamic eroded your marriage, and is infecting your kids with a tendency to misdirect their feelings.
Beth: Fuck you.
Morty and Summer, in unison: Mom!
Beth: Fuck both of you, too.
Pickle Rick: By the way, you might notice that in spite of your numerous distinctive features, I never gave you a name like Scar or Stripe or Goliath. That's because, to me, you aren't special.
You were special to rats. Now they're dead. I guess it was me you should have impressed.
God damn it, I love myself.
Pickle Rick: Pickle Riiick!
Get that parkour. Get that parkour!
Pickle Rick: Hey, it's cool. Just need to find the nearest exit.
Pickle Rick: Whoa, whoa, whoa! No need to freak out.
Pickle Rick: Whoa! Who in the fuck's toilet is this?
Agency Director: What is it?
Agent #1: A pickle. A rat. Both.
Agent #2: It says it's a scientist.
Agency Director: Where is it?
Agent #1: It seems to be using the air ducts and the mail tubes to get around.
Agent #1: It's been gathering office supplies, we think, to build weaponry. But look what it did on the mezzanine.
It transferred a bottle from the trash to the recycling bin.
Whatever this thing is, it's shaming us.
Agency Director: We have 34 armed guards, and we can't kill a pickle?
Agent #1: 32 armed guards. He killed two.
Agent #2: It's on the phone.
Agency Director: Put him on, and locate the phone he's using.
Hello.
Pickle Rick: Hi, um, can you, uh  please let me out.
Agency Director: Your mere presence in this building violates international law.
I couldn't let you out even if you hadn't killed two men.
[Transition to Pickle Rick. The bottom part of the phone he is using has been dismantled. He attaches a belt around his waist which has batteries in the back of it.
Pickle Rick: You should know those men killed themselves.
Agency Director: And how is that?
Pickle Rick: They didn't  let me out.
Agent #2: Solen'ya.
Agency Director: Shut your mouth and do your jobs, you fucking children!
Pickle Rick: Uh, is this not a good time or...?
Agency Director: Some of my men are calling you "Solen'ya": The Pickle Man, an old wives tale. He crawls from bowls of cold soup to steal the dreams of wasteful children.
Pickle Rick: That'd be a lucky break for you.
Agent #1: Go, shoot to kill!
Agent #3: Aaah! We got him.
Agency Director: Ah.
Agent #1: Ah.
".]
Pickle Rick: ...because this pickle doesn't care about your children. And I'm not gonna take their dreams. I'm gonna take their parents.
". The laptop blows up and the three agents are sent flying. Pickle Rick jumps out of an air duct into the hallway where the three agents are, holding a device he constructed. He holds up the device and a laser comes out, which burns a hole through all three of the men's heads, killing them instantly. Three more agents come from around the corner. Pickle Rick reloads the device and shoots another laser, this time chopping off the three other agents' ankles with it. He runs away. Transition to the surveillance room. Pickle Rick shows up on each of the monitors, and turns them off as he appears on them.]
Agent #2: Solen'ya! He's coming! It's because I threw half-way my sandwich!
Agency Director: He's just a pickle!
Agent #2: He's a monster!
Agency Director: He's not the only one.
You can stay, dead to the world and die in this room. Or you can kill a pickle for me and earn your freedom.
Jaguar: There is no freedom while your leader breathes. Our country is a prison.
Agency Director: Then Katarina is a prisoner. Perhaps I could arrange her escape, as well. She lives, Jaguar.
Jaguar: Where is this pickle?
Dr. Wong: What do you think is in the syringe, Beth?
Beth: You're the one that costs $200 an hour. You tell me.
Morty and Summer: Anti-pickle serum.
Dr. Wong: Your kids think it might be anti-pickle serum.
Beth: My kids pee their desks and suck on unbaked vases.
They're just angry at me for divorcing their father.
Summer: I never said I was angry at you.
Beth: That's the point of pottery-enamel huffing, Summer. You do it so you don't have to say "I'm angry at mommy" out loud.
Morty: Oh, my God!
Oh, there-there's pictures of people eating poop in there!
Dr. Wong: It's not my job to take sides or pass judgment. Do you think when your father asks for that syringe, you could ask him --
Beth: He won't have to ask for it, okay? He won't need it. He'll just make more. He doesn't need anything from anyone.
Dr. Wong: You admire him for that.
Beth: It's better than making your problems other people's problems.
Pickle Rick: Oh, come on!
Jaguar: Pickle Man, you should know this isn't personal!
Pickle Rick: You should know that isn't original.
They have my daughter.
There's nothing I won't do to see her again.
Pickle Rick: Yeah, there's lots I wouldn't do to see my daughter, but killing you gets me to her quicker than your derivative bullshit.
Jaguar: I never bullshit, Pickle Man. This can only end with one of us dead, and I have never died.
Pickle Rick: That will be your downfall, Jaguar, not being open to new experiences.
Agency Direcotr: Is it done? Jaguar?!
Pickle Rick: Jaguar couldn't make it.
Agency Director: Do it.
Okay, you win, Pickle Man.
I'm unsealing the building.
Pickle Rick: No, thanks.
I'm coming for you now.
Agency Director: Pickle Man, there's $100 million worth of bonds in a safe on level two.
I'll give you the combination.
Agent #2: That money belongs to the people.
Agency Director: Shut up and call me a helicopter, you prick! Do we have a deal?!
Pickle Rick: Take that money, give it to Jaguar's daughter when you set her free.
Or I'll be visiting you.
Agency Director: Jaguar's daughter is dead.
Pickle Rick: Huh, so you're a liar.
Agency Director: Jaguar was an animal.
You're an intelligent pickle.
We can do business.
Pickle Rick: I don't think so.
See you soon.
Agency Director: Is the helicopter here?
Agent #2: Yes. And the police are on the way. What do we tell them?
Agency Director: Tell them we were robbed.
Hey! Hey, what are you doing?! I'm right here!
Agency Director: Farewell, Solen'ya.
Jaguar: F-15s are scrambled. This helicopter will be shot down in seven minutes.
Pickle Rick: Well, my daughter is about five away, and I've got about eight to live.
Jaguar: Pickle Man, it's too late for me to tell my daughter I love her, but not for you.
Pickle Rick: Oh, well, uh, she knows. I mean, we don't really buy into that kind of crap, to the extent that love is an expression of familiarity over time, my access to infinite timelines precludes the necessity of attachment. In fact, I even abandoned one of my infinite daughters in an alternate version of earth that was taken over by mutants.
Jaguar: Okay. Good luck with that. Wait. Do I have infinite daughters?
Pickle Rick: Huh? Uh, no. No, nope, sorry about that. Nope, just me. Yeesh!
Beth: I am afraid that my kids will get expelled.
Dr. Wong: Good.
Summer, you go.
Summer: I am mad that I can't huff enamel without people assuming it's because my family sucks. I hope to be seen one day as someone that just likes getting high.
Dr. Wong: Good job.
Morty, do you have an "I" statement?
Morty: I am sad that I peed. I'm sad that I peed in class instead of a toilet.
Dr. Wong: Look at this family go. You guys are pros. What do you guys think about doing this once a week?
Pickle Rick: Ugh.
Dr. Wong: You must be Rick.
Pickle Rick: Mm-hmm.
Dr. Wong: I've heard a lot about you today. Your family is crazy about you. Your daughter holds you in very high regard. You're a lucky fella.
Pickle Rick: Yeah, thank you.
Uh, sweetie, you don't still happen to have that syringe in your purse?
Beth: Dad, I would like you to tell me what's in the syringe.
Pickle Rick: It's a serum that I need to, uh, to stay alive.
I have had a rough day.
And, uh, I've sustained a lot of damage.
I'm pretty close to death, which the serum will prevent.
Dr. Wong: By changing you from a pickle to a human.
Pickle Rick: Yes.
Dr. Wong: Rick, why did you lie to your daughter?
Pickle Rick: So I wouldn't have to come here.
Dr. Wong: Why didn't you want to come here?
Pickle Rick: Because I don't respect therapy, because I'm a scientist. Because I invent, transform, create, and destroy for a living, and when I don't like something about the world, I change it. And I don't think going to a rented office in a strip mall to listen to some agent of averageness explain which words mean which feelings has ever helped anyone do anything.
I think it's helped a lot of people get comfortable and stop panicking, which is a state of mind we value in the animals we eat, but not something I want for myself. I'm not a cow. I'm a pickle. When I feel like it. So...you asked.
Dr. Wong: Rick, the only connection between your unquestionable intelligence and the sickness destroying your family is that everyone in your family, you included, use intelligence to justify sickness.
You seem to alternate between viewing your own mind as an unstoppable force and as an inescapable curse. And I think it's because the only truly unapproachable concept for you is that it's your mind within your control. You chose to come here, you chose to talk -to belittle my vocation- just as you chose to become a pickle.
You are the master of your universe, and yet you are dripping with rat blood and feces. Your enormous mind literally vegetating by your own hand.
I have no doubt that you would be bored senseless by therapy, the same way I'm bored when I brush my teeth and wipe my ass. Because the thing about repairing, maintaining, and cleaning is it's not an adventure. There's no way to do it so wrong you might die. It's just work. And the bottom line is, some people are okay going to work, and some people well, some people would rather die.
Each of us gets to choose.
That's our time. I'm going to give you guys my card and hope to hear from you again.
And if you have any friends or family that eat poop and would like to stop, give them my number.
Pickle Rick: I, um I'm sorry I lied to get out of the thing.
I, I shouldn't lie to you.
Beth: Oh, it's fine.
I mean, thank you, and, yeah, you shouldn't.
But I hope you know that's not what that session was supposed to be.
Pickle Rick: Oh, no, I mean, I know it was Morty peeing his pants and Summer snorting glue or whatever...
Beth:  She huffed enamel, and we never even talked about it.
Pickle Rick: Well, there was so much more at stake. I mean, that shrink, what a monologuist.
Summer: Are we gonna go back?
Pickle Rick: Sweetie, could I ge-get that syringe now?
Beth: Oh, my God, yes! Dad, it's in my purse. Oh, I'm sorry. You must be in agony.
Pickle Rick: Eh.
Rick: Jesus. Jesus Christ. Therapists, man.
Beth: Weird breed.
Rick: Man, I missed having hands and blood and a stomach.
We should get a drink.
Beth: Really? Like, go somewhere?
Rick: Yeah, let's drop the kids off and go tie one on.
Beth: Absolutely!
Morty: I, I liked her.
Beth: So what are you thinking, like, Smokey's Tavern? Maybe Shoney's?
Rick: Yeah, either one. Either one.
Rick: You'll never get away with this, Concerto.
Concerto: That is where you're mistaken, Mr. Sanchez.
This shall be my greatest performance of all time!
Rick: This is it, Morty. We're goners. We're not getting out of this one. After everything we've been through, this is how we're gonna die.
Make peace with your god.
Morty: Oh, geez, Rick, I-I-I don't want to die!
Concerto: And now for the E-splat!
Rick: Jaguar!
Morty: Who? Who was that, Rick?
Rick: That, Morty, is why you don't go to therapy.
Rick: Don't let any of those things get away, Morty. If their DNA gets into Earth's food chain, our entire species could be sterilized.
Morty: Then why aren't we killing them?!
Rick: Great. Next time I need a species sterilized, who's gonna do it for me? You?
Morty: Oh, Rick! I-Is that the Vindibeacon? We're being called to assemble by the Vindicators!
Rick: I refuse to answer a literal call to adventure, Morty. Let it go to voicemail!
Morty: Rick, the Vindicators only call when the universe itself is at stake! They're first line of defense against evil! They're the guardians of the unguarded!
Rick: They're the writers of their own press releases, Morty! They're a bunch of drama queens that spend an hour talking and twenty minutes jumping around while shit blows up. They're a phase. We did one, it was the big event of that summer. Let it die.
Morty: I, Morty Smith, invoke my right to choose one in every ten Rick and Morty adventures.  Read 'em and weep.
Rick: God... fuckin' dammit!  Fine! But don't say I didn't warn you.
Morty:  Yes!  Vindicator command ship, beacon received! We're doing Vindicators Twoooooooooo!
Rick: Whoops! Uh, Morty, you might want to freeze some sperm.
Supernova:  Vindicators, Worldender is back...
]
Supernova: ..and this time, he's out to end more than worlds. We have reason to believe his stronghold is located on...
Rick:  My balls.
Morty: Rick!
Supernova: ...the Terraneus system. Once in range, Million Ants will scan for pheromone activity, which should lead us to the location of the base.
Rick: Oh, that's Million Ants. I can't see the ants over here. It just assumed that was, uh, Turd Man. Wiggly Turd Man.
Morty: Rick, stop!
Supernova: Rick, you have something to add to the briefing?
Rick: Uh, yeah, just a few more design notes.  Um, this guy. The, uh... The, uh...
Crocubot: I am Crocubot.
Rick:  Right, Crocubot. So, you're half-cold, unfeeling reptile, half-also cold, equally-unfeeling machine.
Crocubot: Yes.
Rick: So, you're origin is what? Y-You fell into a vat of redundancy?
Noob-Noob:  Got damn!
Supernova: Noob-Noob, we're having a briefing!  If I can continue, Rick. I anticipate sophisticated security measures. I trust you can be of service there.
Rick: Well, let me check my list of powers and weaknesses. Ability to do anything... But only whenever I want... Yeah, that sounds like a job for me.
Alan: I wish he had the ability to check is attitude.
Rick: Alan Rails, ladies and gentleman. After his parents' tragic death in a railroad accident, he gained the power to summon ghost trains. It's not all bad, though. They were spared having to see their grown son wear a whistle!
Noob-Noob: Got damn!
Rick: Thanks, Noob-Noob! This guy gets it.
Morty: Vance Maximus, Renegade Star Soldier!
Vance: Sorry I'm late. It was happy hour.
Morty:  Happy hour.
Rick: Uh, I was also late because of my drinking and mentioned it to zero applause.
Vance: Rick Sanchez, Tinkerer of Terror. Man, that's hard to say. And... Morty, right?
Morty: Whoa, yeah!
Vance: I never forget a kid.  What do you say, Vindicators? Let's make this three for three?
Morty: Did he say "three for three"?
Rick: Did he say he never forgets a kid?
Morty: You mean "two for two", right, Vance?
Supernova: Actually, we assembled a second time last summer to fight Doomnomitron.
Morty: So, this is... Vindicators 3? And you guys did Vindicators 2... w-without us?
Million Ants:  I sense... insecurity.
Vance: Are you sure there's not just a picnic nearby.
Rick: I guess he found his crowd. Pretty toothless stuff, guys.
Rick:  I hope you're happy with the adventure so far, Morty. These guys are even lamer than last time.
Morty: We weren't here "last time", remember? They did a whole Vindicators without us. A bunch of them got killed, too. They lost Lady Katana, Calypso, Diablo Verde...
Rick: Yikes. Yeah, things did feel less diverse in there.
Morty: This article says the reason we weren't involved was... "personality conflicts".
Rick: Don't worry, Morty, they love you. Superheroes need a wide-eyed unremarkable to tag along and react to everything like it's mind-blowing.
Morty: I... think the personality conflict might have been... you.
Rick:  Jesus... How awesome is that? I mean, they wanted to not need me so bad, they murdered three innocent heroes of color, and they still had to bring me back?
Morty: Rick, since it's my adventure and all, could you do me a favor?
Rick: Uh, the adventure is the favor, Morty. Me sleeping on these linens is the favor. I mean, w-w-w-what--what are we vindicating? Comfort?
Morty: Rick, this really bums me out. It-It's embarrassing to find out these guys don't like us.
Rick: Why? Morty,  I defeat gagoos more powerful than these guys every week.
Morty: Yeah, but not heroes.
Rick: Oh, please. They just call themselves heroes so they can...
Morty: I'm calling them that, Rick! They're my heroes! Mine!
Rick: Huh... no accounting for taste. I'm gonna go get a drink.
PA System: Good morning, Vindicators. Ship has arrived at Terraneus system. All Vindicators report to the... briefing room. The--The room from the, uh... the... Uh, it's the d--It's a different room than--than... conference room. I'm sorry, it's my first day as a PA system. First day jitters.
]
Morty:  Oh, God.
Supernova: Good morning. Looks like your grandpa had a long night. Crocubot, why don't you escort Mr. Sanchez to a more comfortable spot so that someone can...  clean up his diarrhea.
Noob-Noob: Whoa, I'm nervous about my first mission.
Supernova: Actually, Noob-Noob, you have a new mission.
Noob-Noob:  Got... damn.
Supernova: Vindicators, prepare for arrival.
Vance: Morty, the Vindicators and I had a chat this morning and I'm afraid we need to make a little change.
Morty:  I-I totally get it. I-I'm so sorry.
Vance: You should be.  Running around in a yellow t-shirt like you're not one of us? Disgraceful.
Morty:  I-I-I... I'm not a superhero.
Vance: Cop a squat, chief.  Everyone in the universe is a hero. All you have to do is know the difference between good and bad, and root for good.
Morty: Rick says "good" and "bad" are artificial constructs.
Vance: Yeah, well, I get the feeling... he kind of needs that to be the case.  Not coming, Noob-Noob?
Noob-Noob:  Ohh! No, uh, I... I got stuff to do here.
Vance: Security drones, inbound.
Supernova: Star Mother, grant me your wrath!
Alan: All aboard!
Million Ants: Aah!  Gun turret.
Supernova: Are you all right?
Million Ants: Yes. I only lost 400 ants. My queen is laying more.  I am back to one million ants.
Supernova: Someone wake up Sanchez.
Rick: Ugh! Oh, Christ...
Supernova: Rick, you're up.
Rick: Barely.
Supernova: Rick, we're taking fire from an automated turret. Can you bring it offline?
Rick: Uh-huh.
Rick: Uh, my God, that's better.
Supernova: RICK!
Rick: Hey, I can't help if I can't see.
Alan: I could've just used a ghost train.
Rick: Really? You don't say. You would have used a ghost train?  Hey, everybody, the ghost train guy would have used a ghost train!
Alan: Man, fuck you.
Rick: Is there coffee? Hey, Morty, can you be a pal? Grandpa left his coffee maker on the ship. Y-You know, the French press thing?
Morty:  Get it yourself.
Rick: Little extra  snippy this morning, aren't you?
Morty: Just focus on the mission, all right?
Rick:  Oh, oh, oh, I'm sorry. Oh, you're right. Ooh, real serious. Gotta take it real serious, huh?
Alan:  Son of a steam engine! They're all dead!
Crocubot: Why would Worldender do this to his own men... and several women?
Vance: Well, he is the Worldender. The guy ends worlds. Kind of his thing.
Rick:  Ooh, real scared. Real fucking on alert, high alert over here.
Vance: What the FUCK?!
Supernova: It's Worldender! What happened to him?
Worldender:
Million Ants: I sense his life force is fading.
Rick: Million Ants, ladies and gentleman! The ant colony with the power of two human eyes!
Rick: All right. Short mission, good mission. Remember when Alan wanted to use a ghost train? See you guys in Vindicators 4. Morty?
Morty: Rick, whoever did this is an even bigger threat than Worldender! We can't leave now!
Supernova: He's right. This is far from over.
Rick: Well, have fun with that. But Morty and I have to meet a comet girl, a monorail man, two assholes and a full alligator in, like, an hour.
Rick: Shit.
Million Ants: I sense the presence of a greater evil.
Drunk Rick: Check, check, One, two. Okay, is it recording? Good. Hello, Vindicators. Welcome to your reckoning, babyyyyyyyy!!
Rick: Welp, it's official. I had too much to drink last night.
Drunk Rick:  If you guys are watching this, you're, you know, the Vindicators. So now that we know...
Vance:  Rick? What's going on, buddy?
Rick: Obviously, I came here last night during a blackout.
Supernova: Obviously? You came here and defeated our arch-nemesis while so drunk, you don't remember doing it? That's something obvious to you?
Rick: Look, I'm a lit-- little more complex than you guys and, no offense, but I've always suspected that a lot of what you do in a year could be knocked out in a couple of hours.
Drunk Rick: ...So I thought, why not just do your job for you so we can have a little fun game.
Morty: Rick, is-is this a "Saw" thing? Are you seriously "Saw"-ing the Vindicators?
Rick: Morty I'm a drunk, not a hack.
Drunk Rick: If you break the rules, lose the game or try to leave, you will die. Like in  "Sawwww".
Rick:  Well, I-I-I think we've seen enough. I'll just figure out how to unplug this.
Drunk Rick: Okay, here we go, room number one. The Vindicators are known throughout the galaxy, but do they know yourselves? Do you know yourselves? Match your... your shit, your... your gimmicks with your faces and y-you get it, it's a matching thing. And do it in three minutes, or you'll  all die.
Vance: Screw this. I'm not playing his game. I'm gonna find us a way out of here.
Rick: Whoa, whoa, whoa. Hold on, Vance. He said you'd die if you tried to leave. That means there's booby traps.
Vance: Why are you acting like that's not you?!
Rick: What part of "blackout" don't you understand? I thought you drank?
Vance: Like cool drinking! Like sexy drinking, not this psycho trailer-park shit!
Morty: Vance, stay calm...
Vance: Oh, so you're the leader now because we gave you a jacket?! You're the learning-disabled kid we do photo-ops with!
Morty: Okay, ouch, but...
Vance:  Okay, this... this is triggering me. I need space. I-I need SPACE! FROM THIS!
Alan: Give me one good reason why I shouldn't crush your windpipe!
Rick: Because my epidermis is laced with a nanofiber defense mesh.
Rick: And because, like I said, I don't remember last night.
Alan: I told you not to invite this mummified motherfucker back!
Rick: Alan, I'm not proud of what's happening here, but if you keep coming at me, there's gonna be another passenger on that ghost train.
Morty: Guys!  I've figured it out.
Drunk Rick: Congrats! You did it-- it!
Morty: It was a bit. All of the descriptors apply to all of you. Drunk Rick's point is that none of you are very special or different.  That's always his point.
Supernova: Let's just get through this as quickly as possible. Then, we'll deal with the two of you.
Morty: The two of us?!  I hope you're proud of yourself!
Rick: Uh, I kind of am. I saved the goddamn universe.
Morty: That's not the issue, Rick!
Rick: Ahh, it would've been if I hadn't.
Drunk Rick: The Vindicators say their job is... is to fight evil wherever it hides, but they don't... pick the location you'll... you'll never even hear them mention, because to fight darkness is to fight yourself.
Crocubot: Oh, I know this! Dorian 5!
Supernova: Crocubot, don't!
Crocubot:  There's no other possible answer. My mechanical and reptilian logic are certain of it.
Rick: Huh, I'm seeing more croc than bot here.
Supernova: Goddammit!
Morty: Uh, what happened on Dorian 5?
Supernova: Nothing!
Alan: Nothing?! We exterminated a planet!
Morty: W-Wait, huh?
Supernova: Doomnomitron was hiding there! He's a shapeshifter! Destroying Dorian 5 was the only way to kill him!
Drunk Rick: Come on, guys, we're all thinking it. Don't...  Don't make me say it.
Morty:  Oh, o-okay. This again?
Rick: You know,  I could have made a device to detect Doomnomitron from orbit like  that.
Supernova: I'm not the one that didn't want you back. Alan was!
Alan:  If you lay those deaths at my doorstep one more time...
Million Ants:  Do not threaten her!
Drunk Rick: Congrats, you did it!
Supernova: What the hell is Is-ra-el?
Morty: I-It's just something Rick starts talking about whenever he's blackout drunk.
Rick: W-What? In w--In w-w-what--In what way? Like, w-w-what's my point?
Morty: In a way that has no point! You just babble about defense budgets and the United Nations, and then you pass out!
Rick: So, to be clear, I sometimes reference the geopolitical complexities of the topic, which is not the same as going to an anti-Semitic place.
Million Ants: I have no stake in this.
Rick: I don't either. I-I'm just saying, if anything, the drunk version of me is probably so supportive of Israel, he wants what's best for it and...
Million Ants: Hey, man, I'm not touching this. You do you.
Drunk Rick: Aloha... means hello and goodbye in Hawaii. But, uh, aloha means... has nothing to do with this room.  I'm so fucking drunk. Ugh, okay, here's the deal. I-I want to rest my eyes for a little bit. I'm--I'm not going to sleep. I just... just need to rest my eye, so let's make this one simple. Just try to hit some three-pointers.
Drunk Rick: let's say... you have to hit... five three-pointers in... five minutes or, I don't know, the whole place--the whole planet will get blown up with a n-neutrino bomb. And try to make it a-a lesson about yourselves like, like how... selfish you a-are, or something. Also, Hawaii.
Morty:  You guys hit the baskets. I'll disarm the drunkenly-improvised neutrino bomb. There's a 40% chance it's a dud, but y-you should still stay back.
Rick: Morty, how many of these...?
Morty:  Too many, Rick! Too many!
Rick: Man, I am really getting high-roaded today.
Drunk Rick: That's a three-pointer!
Alan: Nice shot.
Million Ants: Thank you.
Alan: You two make quite a team.
Supernova: We all do.
Alan: Yeah, I guess.
Drunk Rick: That's a three-pointer!
Alan:  But you guys have always had a... an unspoken bond.
Alan: I mean, really unspoken. Like, "let's-not-tell-my-husband" unspoken.
Supernova:  We aren't married anymore, Alan.
Alan:  Sure, but were we married when you two were "stranded" on Delphi 6 for three days? Because I sensed something was weird when you can back. But what do I know about sensitivity? I'm just a phantom train conductor. You're the pile of ordinary bugs that fucked my wife!
Drunk Rick: That's a three-pointer!
Rick: Where the fuck is the lead wire?!
Morty: You always put it in the weirdest place! Um, uh, over here, maybe?
Rick: Jesus Christ, what a shitty neutrino bomb. It's a miracle I actually every destroy anything.
Morty: Oh, I don't know. You managed to destroy just about everything today; the villains, the heroes, the lines between them, my childhood...
Rick: Thank you. I appreciate it, Morty. I know you were sucking the Kool-Aid out of the Vindicators' dicks, so the fact that I was right about them must be pretty hard to admit.
Morty: Yeah, it is. You know why, Rick? Because when you're an asshole, it doesn't matter how right you are, nobody wants to give you the satisfaction.
Rick: I know. Everyone wants people they like to be right. That's why popular people are fucking dumb. And why your pretentious, poorly-written, high-budget friends back there can eat a double-decker shit sandwich.  Disarmed.
Morty:  Holy shit. You're jealous.
Supernova: YES! Is that what you want to hear?!
Alan: Did it feel good?! Did you like his six million wriggling legs more than my tragedy-stricken, half-ghost, half-tumescent penis?!
Drunk Rick: That's a three-pointer!
Morty: Guys, stop! You're just proving my asshole grandpa right!
Supernova:  You wish this was about sex! We loved each other! We had a child together.
Alan: WHAT?!
Supernova:  I conceived a child with Million Ants and it died inside me because it as HALF A MILLION ANTS AND HALF COLLAPSING STAR! And yes, he was better than you!
Alan: Yeah?
Million Ants:  One million times better!
Alan: ALL ABOOOOOOARD, MOTHERFUCKER!!!
Supernova: STOP!
Rick: Oof! Didn't see that comin'.
Supernova: Is that sarcasm?!  I don't want you slipping away then this is over! All of these deaths are on your hands!
Rick: Oh, come on, maybe a couple of them, but definitely not the train guy.
Supernova: All of them.
Rick: O-kayyy...
Drunk Rick: Congrats, you did it!
enters the enxt room; the doors close behind then, inside is a platform and another monitor with Drunk Rick on it]
Drunk Rick: All right, by now, I've been pretty clear that I think the Vindicators are  full of shit. But... you do have one thing I'll never have. And that thing is the only part of the Vindicators with any value to me. If you know what it is, place it on the platform. Guess wrong and the pla... planet will explode. And probably the solar system, 'cause I kind of fucking eyeballed the neutrino bombs on this one.
Supernova: So what's the trick? Morty, you're the Drunk Rick expert.
Morty: I think... no matter what we put on there, we die. He said it's the part of the Vindicators he values. That means nothing. He wants our last moment alive to be spent knowing how few fucks he gave.
Supernova: Jesus! Okay, open to second opinions!
Rick: I could--It could be Morty.
Morty: What?
Rick: Hey, I don't know. I mean, look, when I get drunk, I get stupid and emotional and there's no logic to it. It's, like, possible I got so drunk, I felt like I was losing Morty to the Vindicators, and maybe this is my way of saying "Okay, you can have him, but only if you know how important he is, otherwise I'll kill you."
Million Ants: That is a... really specific guess.
Rick: Look, I... there's nothing in the room but us. I'm just using logic to connect some dots. It's the best guess I've got.
Supernova: But you're betting our lives on it.
Morty:  I'll cover that bet. I get it.
Rick: Well, Morty, I think you're making that smirky face because you're misinterpreting the moment. I am not being coy about some hidden love for you. I want to be really clear that, if anyone has a better guess, like, if I gave you an amulet last night, or...
Rick: Oh, shit.
Drunk Rick: Sorry, I'm... not good at goodbyes. It looks like I'm never gonna see you again. I can't really roll with the hero types, and I don't... th-they don't want me around. But I want... you to know, even if I didn't show it at the time, II really appreciated you sticking by me.
Drunk Rick:  Goddammit, why am I crying? It makes no sense.
Morty:
Drunk Rick: Ugh, y-you're probably confused because we barely know each other...
Morty:
Drunk Rick: ...but you really stuck your neck out  when you gave me props for my awesome jokes in the briefing room. Everybody else had their heads so far up their ass. Even my own grandson is like, "Oh, the Vindicators are so cool." I mean, he's a moron, it's their... demographic. But you're different, Noob-Noob.
Morty:  ...Motherfucker!
Drunk Rick:  You're fucking cool! And you're smart! And I bet we coulda hung out and shit! And I hope you get to be a full-fledged Vindicator! A-And d-do me a favor. Do-Don't let him know I... I got emotional. But you can tell him one thing. Tell him I said... Oh, fuck. Okay, I just shit myself. Okay, later.
Rick: W--Dude, Morty, what happened i...?
Morty: Shut up.
Million Ants: I sense this means we are not dying.
Supernova: Not all of us.
Million Ants: Sweetheart?
Supernova: Just let Titty-Bean do this, Snuzzles. It's for the greater good.
Morty:  Greater good?!
Rick:  Titty-Bean?
Supernova: It's like you said, Morty: there's no right or wrong.
Morty: Never said that!
Supernova: It's the galaxy's faith in the Vindicators that keeps the galaxy secure!
Rick:  Yeah, I feel safer already.
Morty: No doubt. Who do we make the check out to?
Rick: I'll say, we are gettin' some good licks in while choking to death.
Morty: Right?
Million Ants: Titty-Bean, listen to me. When you came to me, I was merely a sentient colony of ants. It was your beliefs, your pursuit of justice, that taught me to be a man.
Supernova: When did it get so complicated?
Million Ants: Who knows? But we can make it simple again.
Supernova: You were always the romantic.  Which is why you can't leave either.
Supernova: Goodbye, my love.
Rick: Damn! She double-crossed Snuzzles!
Supernova: Silence! I'm going to enjoy this...
Announcer: Let's give a huge thanks to Rick Sanchez for killing Worldender, putting this awesome party together, and for booking one of the hottest talents out there: Logic!
Logic:  Aww, yeah!
Rick: Look at that. Geez, I must've planned a whole party. Invited a bunch of people. Not bad, Drunk Rick, not bad.
Logic: Are you ready?
There's a choo-choo train man, he's rolling down tragedy
Everybody knowing Supernova fights gravity
Morty: Rick, Supernova's getting away!
Rick: Ah, who cares?
Morty: But.. she was trying to kill us!
Rick: Morty, twenty people try to kill me every week. I end up getting high with half of 'em. I mean, check it out, Gear Head's here.
Gear Head: Hmm. Well, that's gonna shoot through me.
Beth:  Morty, you're wearing a Vindicator jacket. Are you a little superhero now?
Morty: Everyone in the universe is a hero, Mom. Which is why we don't need jackets.  And I'm pretty sure we don't need Vindicators.
Gear Head:  Don't mind if I do.  Hey, everybody! Look who's a Vindicator!
Summer:  Man, Grandpa Rick must have gotten shitfaced.
Rick: Shut up, Summer.
Logic: Can't forget about the one who never seems to get a chance
Crowd: Noob-Noob!
Logic: All the bitches come around for...
Crowd: Noob-Noob!
Logic: His dick gets more visits than...
Crowd: YouTube!
Rick: Who the fuck is Noob-Noob?
Gear Girl #1: I can't believe we're getting gear cream with a Vindicator.
Gear Head: So, you girls in Gear college or Gear...
Gear Citizen: Alien terror attack!
Gear Head:  Okay, sounds like a job for... me. I better go get into my alter ego.
Gear Girl #1:  So cool!
Gear Girl #2: I know.
Gear Girl #1: Wait, what alter ego? He was already wearing the jacket.
Gear Head: Gotta know when to hold 'em and...
Rick: Jerry! Jerry, come on! We got to go! You got to come with me, Jerry!
Jerry: Rick?
Rick: It's important, Jerry.  The fate of the galaxy rests on your shoulders. Let's go. Put some pants on. N-Never mind, there's no time for pants, Jerry. I'll make you a pair of pants on the way. It's a Rick and Jerry adventure! Rick and Jerry episode!
————————————————-————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————
Rick: Then I thought, "Hey, what about Jerry? He's -- He's good with regular folk." This is a real situation where -- where -- where Jerry could really shine. He's a master convincer."
Jerry: Rick, I'm not an idiot. I know what this is.
Rick: Oh. Okay, well, I told Morty, "Look, parents get divorced. They get sad. He'll be fine," but I think he's worried you're gonna, you know...Pbht! And you know how Morty gets when he gets emotional. It impedes my work. So, I told him I'd take you out and give you a win.
Wait. My son asked you to take me on some kind of pity adventure to keep me from killing myself?
Wait, w-what did you think it was?
Jerry: An execution.
Rick: Geez! You really do need a win.
No!
I-I don't know. I mean, you never made me the pants, so --
Rick: So, you thought I was gonna drive you into the middle of the galaxy and shove you into the vacuum of space with your dick hanging out? And we're seeing how you'd act if that were about to happen? I mean, shit, I'll make you the pants right now. Take me two seconds to make you pants.
Jerry: I have pants at home!
Rick: Jerry, if I make pants, they'll be better than your pants at home. Also, if I wanted to kill you --
Jerry: Yeah, I get it. It would be amazing. Please, take me home. I'll tell my son we had an amazing adventure.
Rick: Well, if it's all the same, could we go get our story straight? Because you're a terrible liar.
Jerry: You called me a master convincer!
Rick: You believed me?
Jerry: Huh. This seems... kind of fancy.
Jerry, for all you know, this is the equivalent of an alien truck stop. You have no frame of reference. You're in a universe beyond your imagining. But, yes, it is super fancy. I mean, my job here is to make Morty happy. I'm not gonna take you somewhere dangerous.
Snoopy Bloopers: Rick Sanchez. I told you if I ever saw your face in here again, I would stick you like the pig you are.
Rick:  Shnoopy Bloopers, I told you if you tried... There'd be two funerals.
Aaah!!
Someone?
Uh, someone?
Someone!
My friend!
It has been too long.
Oh, it's great to see you again, buddy!
Yeah, you're doing it.
Mr. Sanchez gets anything he wants!
The resort's covered in an immortality field.
You can't die here.
That's the gimmick.
Okay, but still -- bad parenting.
Hey, rich a-holes are rich a-holes.
They all pay top dollar to come here and enjoy a consequence-free vacation.
No death, no disease, no dismemberment.
Can't even have a heart attack.
Got it.
The perfect place to take the most fragile being in the universe.
I can tell you expect me to refute that, but it's right on the money.
If I come home without you, I doubt Morty's gonna let me off the hook.
Yeah, but what if you came home with Jeff Goldblum.
Jeff Goldblum?
What the f*ck are you talking about, Jerry?
Jesus!
Holy f*cking shit!
Yo, what's up, "Big Chill"?!
Don't go into the telepod!
Hey, maybe we would have fun on a fake adventure.
On a fake adventure.
Speaking of --
What are we gonna tell Morty?
I don't know.
But whatever it is, we're gonna need a couple more of these babies!
—————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————
Beth: What's wrong?
Summer:  Mom, do you think I'm hot?
Beth: I...don't think that's something that matters.
Summer: So, I'm not hot?!
I'm saying the part of you that cares about that is a part you shouldn't give any energy to.
That's not an answer!
Beth: Because I'm not an issue of Cosmo, okay? I'm your mother and a doctor, and --
I'm hideous!
Morty: Geez.What’s with her?
Beth: Teenage-girl stuff.
Is that a... hoof collage?
It's perfectly legal, if that's what you're wondering.
Cool...zies.
"We just don't have anything in common any more, Summer."
Oh, yeah, Ethan?
What do you have in common with Tricia Lange?
A mutual love of French cinema?
The belief that a carbon tax is the only viable solution to climate change?
Or could it be her massive stripper titties?!
There it is.
Boob-ya!
And that's when Malakai the Squid came, rips off his face, and beneath it is my face.
I liked it.
Thank you, sir.
Yeah, of course he likes it.
Look at him.
m*therf*cker got two heads and three trunks.
All right, we'll put a pin in it.
Jerry: I'm gonna go take a leak.
What the...?!
My hands are dry! My hands are dry!
♪♪
Risotto: My name is Risotto Groupon. I am the assistant general manager of the restaurant.
Jerry: Do you have any comment cards, because I might have some thoughts.
Risotto: My kingdom was usurped by force with weapons and technology supplied by your father-in-law! Hey, he usurped my kingdom, too, man.
Jerry: He basically got me kicked out of my home, stole my family.
Risotto: Then we are brothers, and you have wondered what your life could have been without Rick.
Jerry: Wondered? Sure. I mean, I've wondered about having a v*g1n*.
Would you help me kill him?
Jerry: What? No! He's my wife's father.
Move on.
Do you... like theme-park rides?
Oh, you really moved on.
There is a popular attraction here called the Whirly Dirly.
Between the first whirly and the third dirly, the ride dips just outside the immortality field.
You're asking me to lure Rick to his death?
I'm only asking you to go on a ride with Rick, get off the ride without Rick, and go home to your family, where you can... wonder about having a v*g1n*.
Okay, okay, that was a very specific example pulled from thin air.
I don't want to be known as the v*g1n* guy.
Risotto, you're needed.
Someone ordered the Nuzzy Guzzy Fresh and Fluzzy Special.
Risotto: Look, I'm not like Rick, so you're free to do as you please. But there comes a time in every man's life when he must choose the foundation on which his legacy will be built -- one of compromise or one of blood.
Once a time of year, there's a special person here *
Oh, yeah.
That's what I'm talking about.
Oops! Okay, a little more on the other side then.
Oh, come on!
Oh, geez!
Aah! Stop!
So, the hospital just let you walk right out of there with horse parts in a bag?
For Christ's sakes, Morty, women going through a divorce need a creative outlet.
What was that?
Summer!
I'm coming, Summer!
What the hell happened?!
How do we get her back to normal?!
I don't know, man! This thing is pretty complicated.
I-I'm gonna call Rick.
Well, hold on.
We can't just call your grandpa whenever there's a problem. We can handle this ourselves.
I mean, I don't see the point in trying to.
This is obviously Rick-level shit.
I have a medical degree.
Morty: Is that what this is about? L-Like, you want to prove yourself?
Oh, it's not about anything, Morty. How dare you?
Okay, good.
Then I'll just call -- Ow!
Morty, I need this.
Hey, Jerry, triple trunks here says he knows a place where the ladies drop panties for anyone bi-pedal.
Yeah, I'm not really interested.
My heart still belongs to Beth.
Oh. Huh. Okay.
What, you don't think I have a shot?
I didn't say that.
Excuse me.
May I have another one of these?
Coming right up.
Hmm, things weren't always so bad between Beth and me.
We had some good times when we were younger.
Oh, yeah, I bet.
That's how teenage pregnancy happens, my friend.
Yeah, no.
Things were pretty great, even until a couple of years ago.
Jerry, I get it.
That's around the time I moved in with you guys.
Oh, I guess you're right.
Jerry, you know, I hope you're not suggesting that I had anything to do with your marriage breaking up, because there are some major issues between you and Beth that have been there since you guys met.
♪♪
Hey, to new beginnings.
To the Whirly Dirly.
Rick: The Whirly Dirly? All right, what's going on here? When did you get cool?!
Jerry: When you stole my wife!
Rick: I should have done that a long time ago!
We're going on the Whirly Dirly!
Whirly Dirly, baby.
Aha, look at this.
It says "normalize." I bet if we just press that --
Morty: But...if the machine was made by spider people, normal would mean eight legs.
Oh, God! are you gonna go on another spiel like you did with the flesh-colored crayon?
I'm pretty sure "normalize" will make her normal.
Aah!
I'd call that progress.
She's huge!
And normal!
I'm not normal!
Mom!
Okay, this says "reverse."
Done and done.
I don't think that's a good idea.
Oh, come on! What else could "reverse" possibly mean?
Aah!
Mom, call Rick!
Thank you.
There's a customer-service number on here.
Mom!
Oh, man.
This is gonna be awesome!
Rick: I got to hand it to you, Jerry. This was a solid idea.
Uh, yeah.
Uh-huh.
Rick: And you know what? I'll cop to it. I put a lot of strain on your marriage. It wasn't fair. I'm sorry.
Jerry: What?!
Rick: I didn't respect your marriage. I certainly didn't do it any favors. And for what it's worth, I'll apologize to Beth for it when we get home. Whoo! Whirly Dirly! Yeah!
Jerry: Stop the ride! We got to get off.
Rick: What are you talking about, buddy?
Jerry: We got to get out of this thing. We got to get out!
Jerry, come on, man! We haven't even gotten to the first whirly.
No, no, this sucks. It's so boring. I mean, I'm falling asleep here. Let's just get out and crawl down the sides.
Uh, get down!
Duck down! It's more fun when you scrunch down.
Rick: Jerry, what the --Oh shit!
Jerry: Rick, up here! There's a spot where you can kill him!
Rick: Good call, Jerry! Hey, how'd you know about that?
Uh...
Lisa?
Rick: So, uh, Jerry, big fan of the Whirly Dirly, are you?
Jerry: Not anymore.  Obviously.
Rick: But when you were, how did you know about it?
We had a deal, Jerry Smith.
Jerry: It's a really common name. Now, take it easy, Rick. You've been in a serious roller-coaster crash. It's -- It's no time to be thinking about who did or didn't play a role in your attempted murder.  Get it off me! It's eating me! Look, I confess, okay? They told me about all the bad stuff you did to this planet and reminded me of all the bad stuff you did to me. But then you said you were sorry, and I realized you're not a monster -- not like this thing. fuck It's got me good. This is a mislead, right? You're inventing a thing to save me.
Rick; That would be called a knife, Jerry. It's been invented. I'm making a way out of here -- One seat ought to do it.
Jerry: I'm sorry. I-I made a mistake. I won't do it again!
Rick: Nobody ever does.
You self-righteous piece of shit You took my family!
Rick: I took your family? Who do you think had more taken from them when you shot 20 ccs of liquid dream-killer into my daughter? She was Rick's daughter, Jerry. She had options!
Alien snake: Oof.
Rick: That all ended because she felt sorry for you. You act like prey, but you're a predator! You use pity to lure in your victims! That's how you survive! I survive because I know everything. That snakes survives because children wander off, and you survive because people think, "Oh, this poor piece of sh1t. He never gets a break. I can't stand the deafening silent wails of his wilting soul. I guess I'll hire him or marry him."
Jerry: Rick!  Rick! I knew you wouldn't let me die.
Rick: That was never an option.
Jerry: Because you never had a son.
Rick: No, because I need a living organism coated in gibble snake bile to attract a shmooglite runner.
Jerry: Wait, what's happening?
Rick: Use that confusion, Jerry. It'll make you wriggle more like an abandoned newborn.
Jesus Christ! What the fuck Rick?! Help! Help me!
Aaah!
Rick: There's a space port 20 miles south. We'll be able to board a galaxy class cruise ship and jump through a wormhole that will put us within spitting distance of the Milky Way. But, hey, it's about the journey, not the destination, right, Jerry?
Beth: Just stay put, sweetie! Mom's still on hold.
Morphizer customer service.
How may I help you?
Yes, I'm having a little trouble with one of your machines.
Oh, I'm sorry to hear that, ma'am.
Do you see a little compartment on the side of the machine?
Let me check.
Yes, got it.
Mom?
Great! Now, do you see the little button next to it?
I do.
Give that button a push.
Okay.
Mom, listen to me!
We're free!!
Okay, so I pushed the button, and three little men ran out.
What do I do next?
Hello?
I think we got disconnected.
Morty!
Don't "Morty" me!
I tricked Rick into taking Dad on an adventure because I thought I could get a break from this kind of sh1t but no!
Like father, like Goddamn daughter!
You want to be like Rick, congratulations!
You're just as arrogant and just as irresponsible!
Everything okay here?
Mind your own Goddamn business, Gene!
I'm having a conversation with my mother here!
Kissing Rick's ass isn't gonna help him keep him around, Mom, but it will help you lose everyone else.
Like I lost Summer.
Hey, you haven't lost her yet.
No, I definitely did.
She's gone.
God damn it!
Go ahead.
Oh, come on.
What's happening?
Your friend is class C or above cybernetic augmentations.
Emphasis on the above.
In any case, he needs to be neutralized.
What?! Wait!
Ugh!
Brain hurty.
What did you do?
It's a synaptic dampener that blocks violent tendencies and controversial thought.
He will now be an ideal passenger.
I want cookies and a 90-minute cut of "Avatar."
Seriously?
Quit it.
It'll wear off in six hours.
It's cheaper than banning dangerous people from flights.
I mean, let everybody buy a ticket, right?
Otherwise, the terrorists win.
♪♪
Aah!
I'm sorry I'm not a classic maternal archetype.
Okay, I don't know what to do when you people come to me with your weird puberty issues.
What are you gonna do when your daughter asks you if she's attractive?
I'll say "yes"!
Morty, gross!
Well, she's gonna be super hot.
Her mother's gonna be Jessica --
Wait, when did Summer ask you that?!
Right before she Clive Barkered herself. Why?
Wait, I know where she is!
Ethan and Summer were supposed to go camping, and then he dumped Summer for this girl, Tricia Lange, who's got huge boobies and took her.
Campsite -- The one with the name that sounds like somebody gave up halfway through naming it.
Uh...Camp Flabanabba!
Mama's coming, baby.
Mama's coming, and she cares about your titties!
They have sweet smiggle honey cookies.
Mmm! And low-calorie petroleum flakes.
Rick: Obviously cookies.
Jerry: Let's get you the flakes then.
Rick: Okay, but it's not what I wanted.
Jerry: Well, maybe next time, you won't be such a dumb piece of sh1t and you can pick for yourself.
Rick: That's not nice.
Jerry: What's that? Did you just have a controversial thought?
Rick: No.
Jerry: That's what I thought, bitch. You little punk-ass.
This is the best.
I agree.
You've made things even easier than if you hadn't been incompetent.
Uh-oh.
We get shoot-shoot now.
♪♪
Man #1: All right, folks, if you could please take your seats, we're about to enter the wormhole.
So, I hope everybody bought it dinner first.
Nice.
Nice.
Jerry, step over there and lock yourself in the escape pod.
Jerry: You're not killing us?
I'm killing Rick. You're free to go. You're no threat to me or anyone.
Now you're just being mean.
Rick: Yeah, you're mean -- No offense.
Mean would be shooting you, Jerry. This is saving a bullet.
Go back to your quietly ashamed family and live out the rest of your days in denial of your v*g1n* fantasies.
It was a one-time thought that everyone has!
What are you doing?
I'm being triumphantly brave!
It's not triumphant or brave.
You're not risking anything.
Jerry: You might shoot me.
I think you know I won't. Because you know I feel sorry for you. You're just doing this so you can tell yourself you fought -- Ow!
Woman: Temporal shield compromised.
Congratulations, Jerry.
You get to die a man.
Jerry: Uh, that's okay! I'll leave! Please don't shoot. I-I'm the v*g1n* guy, remember?
♪♪
Whoa!
What is happening to me?
Where is this?
Where am I?
Am I dead?
A-Am I -- Am I still alive?
Rick: Those aren't the questions you should be asking.
Huh?!
Shh!
Ah, got ya!
Come here, you little pumpkin.
I have sh1t on my ass.
Whoa, oof this!
Who am I?
Who am I?
Jerry: I'm time! I'm literally time!
All: Whooooa!
Aah!
Oh, God. I feel like our souls were united, and we were all one with eternity.
Our body's unchanged, yet our minds have lived a thousand lifetimes.
Is that enough time for me to forgive you?
Rick: I don't know, but it's enough time for a synaptic dampener to wear off.
Jerry: He hadn't decided he was still going to kill us!
Rick: He was talking himself into it. I've seen it before. Cosmic apotheosis wears off faster than salvia.
Jerry: I'm starting to believe you because I just finished merging with your essence for an endless epoch, and I'm already back to thinking you're an asshole.
Fine with me.
Let's just go our separate ways.
Sounds like you and the word "epoch" have a lot of catching up to do.
Jerry: Wait, don't leave me!
Man #1: All right, folks, you're free to get up and walk around the cabin and maybe take the wormhole out for breakfast.
Man #2: Okay, you can do the dinner one or the breakfast one, but not both.
You think you got that thing figured out?
Yeah, I know what I'm doing.
Good.
Because I have an idea.
It's actually a contraction of "some" and "more," you see that?
Oh, wow.
I was way off.
Morty, what's happening here?
Summer got into my grandpa's garage, messed around, and turned herself into a monster.
My mom did the same to make her feel better.
She's a good mom.
Oh, my God.
I have to go call my mother!
Tricia, wait!
Ethan! Ethan!
Hey, it's okay.
Sit down.
You made my sister cry, Ethan.
You messed with her body image.
Look, Morty, I --
Shh, shh, shh.
Careful, Ethan.
Your s'more is burning.
Uh, I guess we better get on the same page about our fake adventure.
Right.
I'll make you a deal.
I'll leave out the part where you tried to murder me...
And I'll leave out the part where you admitted to sabotaging our marriage.
You want to...?
Nah, if the family sees me like this, they'll feel sorry for me. Which is no longer my signature move.
Later days, amigo.
Jerry: Actually, I just realized, I don't have my wallet, and my bus pass is in there, so maybe --
Rick: Stay strong, Jerry. I believe in you!
♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪
I tell you, fellas.
This is the life.
It certainly is.
To freedom!
Ooh!
Looks like a 4-22.
Ooh, a couple cranks on scaling knob with a four dilabyte cross fade would fix that in a jiff.
Four? You'd be lucky to clear 13% de-morphized with that kind of range.
Gentlemen, gentlemen, what did we agree on?
Together: No work talk!
Let's just relax and enjoy our retirement, shall --
Oh, my God!
Aaah!
Tricia: So, Jessica, I heard you broke up with Brad.
Holly: Who are you gonna date; now that you can date anyone?
Jessica: I don’t know. I mean, obviously if someone special comes along. B-But I mean really special, like, nothing I’ve even remotely considered in the past.
Morty:  Holyshitholyshitholyshit.
Tricia: I want that kind of love like that docking kind of love.
Holly: Oh, yeah.
Tricia: Like, penis in the foreskin kind of love Mm-hmm just, like, warm, just like...
Morty: Hey...  ah...
Rick: Everybody, fuck off. Morty, I need your help. W-W-W-We We need to go on a quick adventure.
Morty: You said I could go to school today.
Rick: That was before I needed something, Morty. There’s a plasma shard in the Abadango Cluster. A princess has it. If I get it, I’ll be awesome.
Morty: We’ve been going non-stop, Rick. It’s not healthy. You know, these are my teenage years. I-I just found out Jessica’s single.
Rick: Oh, that’s Wow, Morty. Wow. What an exciting life you lead.  Let’s go. In and out, 20 minutes adventure.
Morty: They’re on our tail!
Rick: Steady, Morty. Five cetons.
Steady, God damn it! Two cetons.
Morty: Wha!
Rick: Fire!
Rick: Pull up, Morty, pull up! Pull up!
Rick and Morty:
Rick:  Fuck.
Morty:
Rick:  Oh, fuck! Fuck! Ahh! Ahh!
Morty: I can’t fucking do this anymore!
Rick: That was seriously fucked up. We almost died.
Morty: So you agree?
Rick: Fuck yes! That w... T-This was insane! That was pure luck. I was not in control of that situation at all.
Morty:
Rick:  Look at this, Morty. Look at my fucking hand. Look at this shit.
Morty: Why do you... Keep doing this to us?!
Rick: I don’t know, Morty. Maybe I hate myself, maybe I think I deserve to die. I-I-I-I don’t I don’t know!
Morty:
Rick: We need a vacation.
Rick: Isn’t that something?
Morty: You were right. Best day spa in the galaxy.
Rick: It's not even cruel, either. These things are just doing what they do in the wild. It loves swallowing stressed-out creatures for 20 minutes and then puking them up.
Morty: My whole body’s like a baby’s ass.
Alien: Complimentary psychological detox? Removes all your cognitive toxins,  purifies your system.
Rick: Oof, this guy on commission or something?
Morty: I don’t think. Are you on commission?
Alien: We’re not on  commission. We get  paid by the hour. There’s no incentive really-
Rick:  Oh, my god. Okay, listen. W-W-W-We’ll try the machine, but but I’d like you to try something. Try swallowing the giant ball of snot that’s dangling around in the back of your throat.  It’s disgusting. Nobody wants to hear that. Ahem. Ahem! That’s what you do.
Morty: : Okay, Rick, come on. Enough.
Rick: Wow, did you hear me bite that guy's head off? Geez, I really need to chill.
Morty: Maybe you should go through twice.
Rick: All right, mister comedy man, you don’t have to bust my balls. You’re not helping things.
Morty: Rick, is this thing supposed to be making this no-
Toxic Rick:  Morty!
Toxic Morty:   R-Rick.
Toxic Rick: Morty!
Toxic Morty: Ugh! What Happened?
Toxic Rick: We blew up, idiot! Are you really that stupid? Obviously the guy I yelled at overloaded the machine. It takes more than that to kill Rick and Morty, motherfucker!
Toxic Rick: But this might do it. Run, Morty!
Toxic Morty: E-Everything hurts!
Toxic Rick: That’s because you’re worthless!  Jesus, how big was this explosion? I’m a genius. I don’t have time for this shit.
Toxic Morty:  W-W-We’re in Hell, aren’t we, Rick?
Toxic Rick:  You’re so stupid, Morty. You’re an  idiot. There’s no such thing as Hell.
Toxic Morty: I believe you, but I just want to die.
Toxic Rick: You can die when I say so. I control you. I control the universe! Why am I bragging about that? I have nothing to prove. I’m surrounded by inferior pieces of shit and –
Toxic Rick: Toxins. We’re not in Hell, Morty.  We’re in the detoxifier. The machine didn’t blow up. It worked normally.  It removed our toxins.  We’re the toxins.
Toxic Morty:  Aaaaaaaahhhhhhh!
Toxic Rick: Are you listening, you stupid little garbage person?!  We're what got removed!
Alien: I hope you both found that detox sufficiently relaxing.
Rick: Hey, man, listen Those comments I made about your throat?
Alien:   It’s all good.
Rick: It’s nice of you to let me off the hook. It’s still unacceptable behavior, and I do regret it.
Alien: Believe me, man, I’ve been working here a long time. I get it.
Morty: Hey, uh, you mind if I put on some music?
Rick: Not at all.
Radio: Grab my terrifolds...
Rick: What is that?
Morty: I just hit shuffle.
Rick: Are you kidding?
Morty: Haha.
Rick: This universe.  Oh, excuse me.
Morty: We should listen to one random song a day, you know? We’d end up hearing more songs we didn’t like, but we’d discover a lot more that we did.
Rick: That is an interesting concept. You know, it makes me wonder if there’s an algorithmic expression that could achieve the ideal ratio. Pfft! Listen to me, trying to calculate happiness over here.
Morty: Hoo, if anyone could, Rick.
Rick: Hey, here’s something no science could measure. I’m real proud to be your grandpa, Morty.
Morty: Thanks, Rick. I love you.
Toxic Rick: Yeah, motherfucker! Yeah! Get it! Get some! Right up your fucking bitch ass, you fuck! Guess who just discovered a new element?! You think you could do that, Morty? You think anyone but me could do that ever in a billion years? Do you think if God existed he could do it? The answer is no. If God exists, it’s fucking me!
Toxic Morty: Yes, Rick. I-I agree, Rick.
Toxic Rick: While you were flapping your parasitic turd holster, I discovered the toxic equivalent of electricity, Morty. What do you think about that?
Toxic Morty: Uh I th-I think my voice is annoying.
Toxic Rick: It is, and it’s your best quality.
Toxic Morty:  So true.
(Scene cuts to Harry Herpson High School, where Mr. Goldenfold is teaching a math class.
Mr. Goldenfold: Now, who can tell me the common denominator of these two factions? You don’t know or y’all just bored?
Morty: Hey, listen, you know, wh-If we’re all bored over here, wouldn’t the common denominator be you?
Mr. Goldenfold: Damn, Morty. That’s hilarious. Normally I would come down on any kind of disruption, but it seems to represent a positive change for your character. Class dismissed!
Off screen student: Awesome, Morty!
Student with glasses: You done good, Morty.
Off screen student 2: Oh yeah!
Female student: Thanks for the advice, Morty.
Morty: You got it.
Female student 2: I did it, Morty!
Morty: I knew you could.
Mitch: Hey, Morty, remember yesterday when I couldn’t play the trombone? Well, check this out!
Morty:  Just like I told you, Mitch. The music was in your heart the whole time.
Female student looking into her mirror: Stupid hat Wish I had the courage to just be myself.
Female Student:  There you are.
Bully: You might have all these idiots fooled, but I know you’re still the same pathetic loser hiding behind a confident facade. I know that because I’m doing the same thing, brother. I’m not alone anymore!
Jessica: Hey, Morty. Word around school is you’ve become super healthy.
Morty: I don’t know about all that. I do, however, know that I have a pretty bad case of haven’t taken you to dinner-itis. Might be fatal. Hahaha!
Rick: : Hey, kids. Uh, hope I’m not interrupting. Morty, a moment of your time?
Morty: Happy to help, Rick.
Rick: I hate to bug you with this, but after our morning hike I started receiving very faint, highly unusual transmissions on my sub ether phone. Listen.
Morty: It’s a bad phone. Chuck it. I downgraded to a clamshell for emergencies only. You know, if if if something’s worth saying, I-it’s worth eye contact.
Rick: Uh, I-I-I traced the source of the call back to the spa we went to, Morty. I thought I could hear a voice in there, so I enhanced it, a-and listen.
Toxic Rick: Hey, asshole!
Toxic Morty: Oh, man!
Toxic Rick: Remember us?
Toxic Morty: Oh, I don’t like confrontation!
Toxic Rick: You fucked us, you pieces of garbage! That’s right, you’re fucking garbage, not us. I’m a fucking genius and a god. You really think this thing can hold me? I’m gonna rip your throat...
Rick: Morty, what if the toxic parts of us have their own identities, their own will to live?
Rick: W-What if mine shares my intelligence and devised a way to reach out to us?
Morty: Sounds like he’s in a lot of pain. Lot. O. Pain. But, you know, you shouldn’t have to deal with that, man. You know, l-let’s work off your trauma with some urban spin yoga. It’s amazing. You do yoga on a bike, but you have an at-risk preteen-
Rick: I don’t think I can just blow this off, Morty. If I had known it worked this way, I wouldn’t have detoxed. Well, I would have because I was toxic. Now I’m detoxed and I’m accountable to my toxins, right? I-It’s a dilemma.
Morty: I think I know what to do.
Rick: Morty!
Morty: Rick! Haha.  You know, the only problem here is a big fat brain that misses eating all them big fat problems. Focus on the good thing. Trust me, things are good. Taking that away from me, heh. That wouldn’t be healthy.
Morty: Hahaha! Hahahaha! Oh, man. World’s Greatest Grandpa, for reals.  It’s not just a coffee cup for you, bud. You’re legit.
Morty: I love drums. I never took drum lessons. Why? Limitations. We are addicted to our own limitations. How amazing is that? Is the kale prepared in the kitchen? I’ll have a water.
Jessica: Uh How is the "cru-dite?"
Waiter: CruditÃ©. It’s a cup of carrot sticks.
Morty: Ha! It’s okay! Pronounce it however you want. Words are just things. Please. Thank you. We’re having a conversation.
Morty: God, I am so excited to finally have dinner with you. You know how long I’ve been waiting for this? It’s like, whew! I-I-I wish you’d shut up, though. Just kidding. You know, you’re so quiet. What’s wrong? W-Why don’t you tell me about yourself? What’s the atmosphere like on planet Jessica? Where’s the equator, what are the vacations, a-and the holidays? I mean, you know, haha, are they the same time? Talk to me.
Jessica: Well I... like this restaurant.
Morty: Holy shit! Holy shit! We have a moron over here! I’m an idiot. I can’t believe I haven’t thought of this. You have to do this detox thing I did. It’s an alien spa, you go through it, fwoos-s-s-ssh, lasers, bwaa-bwaa-bwaa, wheeew wheeew! Sucks everything out. Everything that was holding me back, everything bad, I mean, it just sluuuurp! Hahaha! Right?
Jessica:  Cooooool.  Oh, my God! I can’t believe this.
Morty: Yeah, phones are awful, I downgraded to-
Jessica: I totally forgot my I have a thing, and...
Morty: Things are good.
Jessica: You know what? Why am I doing that? That’s more rude than the truth. Look, I’m sorry, Morty. I just don’t think...
Morty: Do not. Even. You have no need to explain. It’s all good.
Jessica: I think you’d get bored with me.
Morty: E-Exactly. Look, the sparks aren’t flying. This is what dating is for, you know? First date, no sparks. No damage, no worries. Life is a highway. We’re gonna ride it all night lonnngg!
Morty: Gonna eat some "crudite. Mmm! Is this organic? Mmm.  All right. You know, the evening continues.  Okay, here we go.
Morty: Ma’am, I’m afraid I have some bad news for you. Your money’s no good here. Haha!  I’ll I’ll get the next round, sir.
Stacy: Aren’t you a child?
Morty: Only in the ways that matter. Morty.
Stacy:  Stacy.
Morty: I’ve been watching you drink, Stacy. I get the feeling you’ve got a hard job. I wonder what it takes to please you. That’s the job I want Part time, full time, I want to be good at it, bad at it, I want to get promoted, fired, corner office, hostile takeover, workplace accident I’m on my knees, Stacy. Praying, worshipping, begging, whatever you want.  What do you think about that?
Stacy:  Okay. Fuck it.
Morty: Tink.
Morty:  Mm! Let’s ask my grandpa. He’s a scientist.
Morty: Hey, Rick, are you familiar with "Ben Wa" technology?
Rick:  Morty, great news. I went back to the spa and they let me purchase the containment unit from their detoxifier.
Morty: Why?
Toxic Rick:  Because we’re coming home, bitch!
Morty: What is this?
Toxic Rick: This is the parts of your pussy grandpa that keep it real. Oh oh, and I think you dropped something, too!
Toxic Morty: I don’t want to be on camera. I’m ugly and gross, please.
Stacey: Should I go?
Morty: You’re your own person, Stacy.
Stacy: Then I’d like to stay.
Morty: Rick, please tell me you’re not trying to put that stuff back inside of us.
Rick: Morty, I’m sorry. That stuff is alive and it belongs with us. We yanked them from their homes and locked them in a can.
Toxic Rick: Motherfucker!
Rick: See? They’re living in pain.
Morty: That’s what they do, Rick, they live in pain. They are pain, you know? They they’re all the bad parts of us, which, by the way, includes our dishonesty, so how do you know this isn’t all some sort of crazy trick?
Toxic Rick: Oh, so now because I’m made entirely of toxins I’m also a liar? Fuck you, you little sociopath.  You hear this, Morty?
Toxic Morty: Oh, everybody hates me. I can tell. Y-You all hate me.
Toxic Rick:  All right, shut up, Morty. Healthy Rick, are we doing this or what?
Rick: Yep. Sorry, Morty. I need you to step into the booth.
Morty:
Toxic Rick: Don’t negotiate with that little turd, dummy. You’re the Rick. You need to show dominance. Morty, booth, now.
Rick: Booth! Come on, Morty.
Morty: Don’t touch me!
Rick: Morty, do the healthy thing and voluntarily retoxify yourself.
Morty: Nooooo!
Stacy: Is it wrong if I think this is kind of hot?
Morty: Let me out of here! Stacy, help! Open the door!
Stacy: I need to hear our safe word, Morty.
Morty: Sea Cucumber! Sea Cucumber!
Rick: What are you doing?
Stacy: I’ll do anything for you, Morty.
Rick: No!
Toxic Rick: It worked! Haha! Yes! That idiot believed every word. Now let’s see how he enjoys living in that shit tank.
Toxic Rick: He’s right behind me, isn’t he?
Toxic Morty: He’s in front of you.
Toxic Rick: Oh.  My eyes are still adjusting.
Stacy:  Uh, is this like a sex dungeon? I guess I should’ve been paying attention.
Toxic Rick: After 70 years of being bottled up inside a  sentimental jackass, I finally get to live my own life.
Rick: You said we were merging.
Toxic Rick: I lied, dumbass! I lie about everything! Why would I ever re-merge with a pussy like you?
Rick: So you were just gonna trap us in that tank? T-That was your plan?
Toxic Rick: Not was, motherfucker, still is.
Morty:  Kill him, Rick!
Toxic Morty:  I don’t like this! This is scary!
Rick:  All right, you asked for it.
Toxic Rick: Did I ask for this?  Did I ask for this?  Huh? Did I?
Groin System 6000: Assessing threat to groin.
Toxic Rick: Groin System 6000. Kill him!
Groin System 6000:  That... is my groin’s user.
Toxic Rick: Believe me, I got a lot more use out of that thing than he ever did.
Groin System 6000: You know what? Not my table.
Mrs. Pancakes: You do know me.
Summer:
Summer: What the hell, Grandpa Rick?
Toxic Rick: Fuck you, Summer!
Rick: Sorry, Summer!
Rick: Okay, okay, take it easy. Don’t do it.
Toxic Rick: I love you. Good boy. Daddy’s little boy.
Rick: Summer, get out of here! Go!
Toxic Rick: Oh, who’s that?
Toxic Rick:  Who’s that over there? Oh, no.
Toxic Rick: You see the bad man in front of you? You’re a good little boy, you’re gonna get him. You’re gonna get him.
Toxic Rick: Ahh! Son of a...
Toxic Rick: Nice try, asshole.
Rick: We can resolve  our issues. We don’t need to resort to over-the-top- Aah!
Toxic Morty: I-I did it, Rick. I got the tank! I-I’m a piece of shit, but I got the tank!
Toxic Rick: You’re going in that tank, motherfucker. You’re gonna  live in that toxic shit wasteland like I had to do!
Toxic Morty: Ahh! Ow!
Toxic Rick: That’s right, motherfucker! You’re going in that fucki-
(Beth walks into the living room with groceries. everyone just stares at her.
Beth:  Dads?
Rick: Okay, just Just leave her out of it.
Beth: What’s going on?
Toxic Rick: All right, fuck this. Time for plan B If I can’t trap you in a toxic world,
Morty: Ahh!
Toxic Rick: I’ll just make the whole world toxic.
Rick: It’s okay, girls. I-I’m so sorry I put us in danger with some of my behavior. I-If you’d like I can go out in the g-garden, pick some fresh basil, and make us a nice Scallopini.
Beth: What did the booger version of you mean when he said he was going to make the whole world toxic?
Rick: Believe me, sweetie, that man’s motivations are a mystery.
Morty: Screw that, Rick. We got to stop him. What’s the last thing you’d think about doing with that tank thing?
Rick:  Morty, I appreciate what you’re trying to do, but it’s not our place, you know, to pick and choose which world gets saved from what apocalypse. Our our toxins have as much a right to their worldview as-
Rick: Morty, how is it healthy to slap me?
Morty: Obviously my version of health is a hell of a lot different from yours, you useless old turd.
Rick: Wait. That’s it.  How could that detox machine know the difference between healthy and sick for everything that goes through it? It can’t. It must be by the individual’s own definition of toxicity. That means...
Beth: Dad!
Morty: What the What the hell, Rick?
Rick:  I’ll explain on the way.
Toxic Rick: This "Moon Tower," Morty,  is the perfect height and metallic composition for the  amplification and beaming of toxic energies. What do you think about that, Morty? Are you excited about that, Morty?
Toxic Morty: Oh, man. I’m just freaked out. I-It’s too high up here.
Toxic Rick: Once I flip this switch, the entire world is gonna be just as toxic as us, baby.
Priest: As we praise our loving Father-
Priest:  God is a lie! We made him up for money!
Man:  Santa Claus isn’t real.  You were all mistakes!
Toxic Rick: Hahahahahaha! We fucking did it, Morty. Put your fucking hands in the air.  Yeah, you little piece of shit.
Rick: Remember me?
Toxic Rick: Didn’t you learn last time that you can’t beat me?
Rick: Yeah, I did. And then I learned something else.  This.
Toxic Morty: Ahh!!
Rick: That bullet is laced with an encrypted nanobotic virus that will disintegrate your Morty in about, ah, 20 minutes.
Toxic Rick: You think I give a shit?
Rick: I know you give a shit, dummy. Because I know I don’t. Here’s another thing I know. The decryption key that neutralizes the virus.  You want it? Come and get it. Merge with me and you’ll know how to save him.
Toxic Rick: Pfft. Come on, man. I’ve been trapped in your pussy brain for 70 years of delusions, but this is the all-time weakest bluff that I’ve ever-
Toxic Morty: Ow-Ohh!!
Toxic Rick:  Jesus Christ! What are you doing?!
Morty: He’s cutting your time in half. 10 minutes.
Toxic Morty: Ohh! It hurts!
Toxic Rick: What is your problem?
Rick: Oh, I had all my problems removed my entitlement, my narcissism, my crippling loneliness, my irrational attachments.
Rick: They must be somewhere. They ain’t over here, bro.
Toxic Rick: I’m not going back in there!
Rick: Honestly, I don’t care either way. I hate having you in me. And when I say "honestly" you can believe it, because we both know I’m too healthy to lie. Watch.
Toxic Rick: All right! Knock it off! You’re not impressing anyone.  Morty, not that I give a shit, but are you okay?
Toxic Morty: Jesus Christ, it hurts.
Toxic Rick: Relax, quit your bitching. Y-You’re gonna be fine. Grandpa’s here.
Rick: Hahahahahaha.
Toxic Rick: You think that’s funny?
Rick: Y-You got to have a sense of humor about these things. Oh, wait, you can’t. You’re literally incapable of seeing the bigger picture. I guess it’s just funny because you’ve never done anything but complain about me being in charge, but if I ever gave you the wheel we’d be dead in five minutes.
Toxic Morty: Ah, Rick?
Rick: You poor, dumb, sick animal.
Toxic Morty: Augh... Rick?
Toxic Rick: Ahh!  Just do it! Just do it, you piece of-
Rick: Aaahhh! I’m back, baby!  Regular Rick! Master of both worlds! Check it it out!  Excuse me.  Now we’ll just reverse this hacky toxicity beam. Man, I really over think shit when I’m angry.
Priest: God is not a lie.
Crying boy: Mommy! Mommy!
Rick:  Ha! All right, Morty, now it’s time we re-merge your little ass.
Morty: You’re a better man than me, Rick. I’m healthy enough to admit that!
Rick: That kid is a real piece of shit.
Toxic Morty:  Y-Y-You’re gonna save me, right?
Rick:  Part of me wanted to, Toxic Morty. Part of me really wanted to.
Worker:  I’m telling you, these shares are hot.
Worker 2: Yeah. That sounds like a good idea. It’s definitely a good idea.
Morty:  Duane, Duane, Duane, I get it, now can you get me? Have I ever lied to you?  That’s right, and ask around, I never do, Duane.
Morty: Let me put this real simple. This stock is a beautiful redhead, recently single, not looking to date but ready to fall in love, and fate has put her locker two down from yours, Duane Two lockers down.  So step up or step off, Duane. Blue pill or red pill, what’ll be, bro? Totally understand, Duane. You’re the boss.  Heinholz Biotech Million and a half at thirty-three.
Worker in a red shirt:  Heh.You little fucking monster.
Morty: Mmm! Is this organic? Mmm!  Go for Morty.
Jessica on the phone: Hi, Morty. It’s Jessica. Look, can we just talk for a minute?
Morty: Is that how long it takes for Rick to trace my location?
Jessica: Come back, Morty. I miss you.
Morty: You miss the old me. You miss someone that loved you so much you never had to love ‘em back.
Jessica: How do you know I don’t want to love you?
Morty: Because I’m not sick.
Jacquelyn:  Ex-girlfriend? Should I be jealous?
Morty:  There’s nothing to be jealous of.
Jacquelyn:  I just realized that I’m scheduled to speak at that fundraiser on our date night. I can cancel.
Morty: We’ll be together. That’s a date.
Jacquelyn: You are the perfect man.  Oh, sweetie,  I think you hit the wrong button. You didn’t hang up.
Morty: Huh. How ‘bout that?
Rick: Sorry, tiny American Psycho,  time to take the opposite of your medicine.
Morty: Do what you got to do.
Morty: Oh! Ow! Ahh!
Jessica: So, how do you feel, Morty?
Morty: Ah, geez. I’m miserable.
Rick: Am I good or what?
Morty: I guess it’s worth it, though, to know how much you care.
Jessica: Care? Me? Morty, I’m fine with you. I only did this for him.
Rick: You lying bitch. She kept coming to our house, Morty, and kept asking me. "Did did d-did you get a new Morty yet?"
Jessica: Because you kept drunk dialing me and crying about it.
Rick: I wasn’t crying!
Morty: Jacquelyn, I I-I-I wasn’t who I said I was.
Jacquelyn: You weren’t a 14-year-old boy from the Midwest who ran away from his family and capitalized on his lack of conscience by becoming a stock broker?
Morty: Oh. I guess I was pretty up front about that, wasn’t I?
Jacquelyn: You were up front about everything. You were my soul mate.
Morty: Well No-Not anymore. I’ll, um Y-You can keep the apartment, and and and, uh the drones.
Rick: She can’t keep the drones. They turn into a little Voltron robot. They’re awesome.
Rick: You can’t keep the drones.
Tricia: So, how was your date with Brad?
Jessica: It wasn’t a date. We were just having lunch.
Holly: You guys are getting back together, aren’t you?
Morty:
Rick:  Morty, I need your help on an adventure. Eh, "need" is a strong word. We need door stops, but a brick would work, too.
Morty: Okay.
Jessica: Morty.
Morty:
Jessica: Good to have you back.
Tricia: Have you ever been peed on before? Oh, my God. Yum.
Credits song: Hey, did you ever want to hold a terrifold? I got one right here Grab my terri-flap Squeeze it Grab it, squeeze it Tug on my terri-flap Hey, I want to take you to The terrifold dance Wanna come with me? You can grab my holdie-folds Squeeze ‘em tight You son of a bitch. Suck my holdie-flappy folds Lick my flappy foldie-holes My terri-flaps in your mouth Suck my flaps, you piece of shit. Whoo!
Man: Although only a handful of moon towers remain today, they were popular in the late 19th century. An entire town could be illuminated by...  What the hell is this?
Stacey: Sea Cucumber! Sea Cucumber!!
Rick: Alright, Morty. You ready for our adventure to the lost city of Atlantis?
Morty: *gives a thumbs-up* Ready as I’ll ever be, Rick!
Rick: Oh, for fuck’s sake.
Rick K-22: *holding clipboard* Hello, I’m Rick K-22. This is my Morty.  We’re going from reality to reality, asking Ricks to contribute to the Citadel of Ricks redevelopment fund.
Rick: What are you, stupid? We’re done with the Citadel of Ricks. I was *burp* never on board with it in the first place, that’s why I murdered everyone in charge and left it to rot.
Rick K-22: *examines clipboard* Ohhh. That was you. *passes clipboard to his Morty*
Morty: They tried to murder him first.
Morty K-22: Oh geez. Well, you’ll be happy to know that... the Council’s gone now.
Morty: Yeah, he knows. He murdered them.
Rick K-22: You wanna rein in your Morty?
Rick: *glaring* Every day.
Morty K-22: *reading from script* The Citadel of Ricks redevelopment fund donates--
Rick K-22: *interrupts* Morty, he’s not gonna *belch* donate. You’re pitching the policeman’s ball to a black teenager here. *pulls out his portal gun and shoots a new portal* Let’s go.
Rick: You don’t have to be a dick.
Rick K-22: I think you know that’s not true.
Morty: Geez. I didn’t know there were still Ricks and Mortys living on the Citadel. I wonder what their day-to-day lives are like.
Rick: *straps harpoon gun to his back* Well, you can keep wondering that while we go on our fun, fresh, self-contained adventure to Atlantis. *shoots a portal* Anyone continuing to explore the Citadel is either stupid, or one of the unfortunate millions held hostage by their terrible ideas.
Morty: Man. Glad I’m not one of them!
Rick: Citadel Morning News: News about the Citadel in the morning. Pretty self explanatory.
Rick D716-B: Good morning. I’m Rick D716-B.
Rick D716: And I’m Rick D716.
Rick D716-B: Must be nice.
Rick D716: Coming up! Gravity outages in East Sanchez Heights!
Rick D716-B: And, is your uranium-powered cellular matrix making you sick? The answer may not surprise you. It’s ‘yes, it’s uranium.’
Rick D716: Those stories and more after this break.
Narrator: Sixteen iterations off the central finite curve, there’s a Rick that works more with wood than polarity plating.
Narrator: His name is Simple Rick, but he’s no dummy.
Narrator: He realized long ago that the greatest thing he’d ever create was his daughter.
Young Beth: I love Daddy!
Narrator: We captured that moment and run it on a loop through Simple Rick’s mind.
Narrator: And the chemical that makes his brain secrete goes into every Simple Rick’s Simple Wafer Cookie.  Come home to the impossible flavor of your own completion. Come home to Simple Rick’s.
Rick D716: Just one day remains before our newly democratic Citadel elects its first president. It’s anyone’s race among the Rick candidates.
Rick D716-B: But a certain other candidate should be getting at least one vote for most adorable.
Rick D716 : That’s right, the Morty Party candidate’s still in the race, and you just gotta love him for that.
Rick D716 : Here you see him in his little Morty suit, waving. Isn’t that adorable? Little jackass.
Rick D716-B : Uh, yeah, I think we actually have the audio for his speech here. “Aw geez, aw man, I’m gonna lose the election and stuff.”
Campaign Manager Morty: We had a good run, sir, but I think it’s time to pull out of the race.
Candidate Morty: I feel pretty confident about tonight’s debate.
Campaign Manager Morty: You shouldn’t, sir. You should be terrified.
Candidate Morty: Maybe you should find a little faith, young man.
Campaign Manager Morty: You don’t pay me to have faith! And we’re the same age!
Cop Rick: Oh! S-sorry, I was expecting--
Cop Morty: A Rick partner? Lesson one, rookie: expect the unexpected. Now get in.
Morty: Mortys are human!
Cop Morty: Get the fuck off the car, you Rickless fuckin’ animal!
Morty: WHOA!!
Cop Morty: The election’s got these yellow shirts more riled up than a Picture Day Jessica.
Cop Rick: That’s pretty harsh, sir.
Cop Morty: So report me. Nobody gives a fuck.
Cop Rick: Look, I’m just saying. Makes me a little sad to hear a Morty cop calling Mortys “animals”.
Cop Morty: Well, it makes me sad to see another Rick cop buying into his sensitivity training.
Cop Rick: Well, I’m glad to know there’s more like me.
Cop Morty: Oh, there was one. Why do you think that seat was empty?
Dispatch: Robbery at Fifth and *BURP* Avenue.
Cop Rick: Fifth and *BURP*? That’s Mortytown.
Cop Morty:  Unit 7 responding.
Teacher Rick:  "Good idea, Rick."
Students:  Good idea, Rick.
Teacher Rick: "This is a great adventure."
Students: This is a great adventure.
Teacher Rick: "I love being your new Morty."
Students: I love being your new Mor...
Slick:  Farty!
Teacher Rick: Very amusing, Mr. Smith. Almost as amusing as when your first Rick was decapitated on Zorpathion 9.  Or was that your third Rick? How many Ricks have you had?
Slick: Five…
Teacher Rick: I see. So you are top of the class in something.  Tomorrow you will be transferred to your new Ricks. Hopefully, they will be your last. Yes, Slow Ri-- Tall Morty?
Tall Morty: Di-Did I gragitate this time yet?
Teacher Rick: Anything’s possible, Tall Morty. Ugh…
Lizard Morty: Guess we won’t be seein’ each other after this, huh?
Slick: I say we make our last day count. I say… we go to the Wishing Portal.
Glasses Morty: That’s a myth.
Fat Morty: It’s not a myth! M-m-my first Rick’s fourth Morty knew a Rick whose Morty went there.
Lizard Morty: If we’re not here for graduation, our butts are gonna end up in Mortytown.
Slick: I thought your last Rick fused you with a lizard, not a chicken.
Lizard Morty: Okay, fine. I’m in.
Glasses Morty: Me too.
Fat Morty: What the hell?
Lizard Morty: *retracts tongue* I-I thought I saw a fly.
Supervisor Rick: *whistles* Listen up, fucknuts! I’ve been your supervisor for five years but all shitty things must come to an end, and I have been promoted to regional manager.  Yeah, I feel the same way. May we never meet again. Of course that makes the position of Supervisor available.  So as of next week, the ass you’ll be kissing will be that of…  K-83,  affectionately known as “Cool Rick.”
Cool Rick: I know I’m new to the Citadel and some of you might not think I’ve put in my time, but what can I say? I’m Cool Rick! *finger guns* Yo, ha-ha-ha, check me out!
Supervisor Rick: Alright, knuckle-*burp*-heads, any questions?  Alright then, back to work, you gold-Rickers.
Cop Morty: No Ricks, no families, high off their asses and runnin’ amok. Mortys are raised to be sidekicks. Without a side to kick, they just start kickin’.
Morty Mart Morty: They were, they were about my height, around fourteen years old… OH! Their shirts were yellow!
Cop Morty: *sarcastically* Yeah, make sure you get that down.
Cop Rick: Any mutations? Augmentations? Three eyes, a tail, maybe a buzzcut?
Morty Mart Morty: No, just four normal Mortys.
Purple Trunk Morty: *feels annoyed* "Normal"?
Morty Mart Morty: *talks back to Purple Morty* Put it in your blog.
Cop Morty: *looking at two Mortys in a nearby alley* Lemme turn over a few rocks.
Cop Morty: Aw geez, hey, what’s goin’ on, fellas?
Morty 1: Aw geez, man, nothin’ man, we’re just hangin’ out and stuff.
Cop Morty: I hear that, ah geez, I guess I’m supposed to be figuring out who robbed the store across the street but aw geez I dunno.
Morty 2: *smirking* Ah geez man, that sucks that your Rick’s makin’ you do that.
Cop Morty: *angered* He’s not my Rick. He’s my partner. Aw, geez.
Morty 1: Well, maybe the uniform makes a big difference. Who am I to say? To me, you just look like a sidekick.
Cop Morty: CALL ME A SIDEKICK ONE MORE TIME! CALL ME A SIDEKICK!!
Morty 2: Hey man! C’mon, aw geez!
Cop Morty: WANNA SEE HOW I PAINT A WALL?!
Morty 2: It was the Mortytown Locos, man! The Mortytown Locos!
Cop Rick: Do you realize how many codes you just violated?
Cop Morty: Aw geez, Rick. What do I know about knowin’ stuff? Get in the fucking car.
Retired General Rick: More lasers.
Moderator Rick: You can take more time to answer the question if you’d like.
Moderator Rick: ...Okay, Juggling Rick. How would you solve the Citadel’s financial crisis?
Juggling Rick: First off, can I just say that I think this Citadel is the greatest in the entire multiverse. Now, I believe the answer to your question has three parts.  First, education spending must get muuuch higher! *starts tossing one ball*
Juggling Rick: But it has to be balanced with defense! *starts juggling all three balls* Whoa!
Campaign Manager Morty: Can we fact-check this, please? Never mind, who am I kidding? This race is over.
Juggling Rick: *now juggling three balls and a chainsaw, he catches them all gracefully* And that’s how you run a Citadel. *bows*
Moderator Rick: Candidate Morty. The number of displaced Mortys is soaring, while Rick satisfaction levels are plummeting, and the divide between the two groups has never been wider. *smirks* Solve that one real quick.
Candidate Morty: I don’t see a divide between Ricks and Mortys.
Retired General Rick: Oh, shocker. *farts*
Reverse Rick Outrage: I’d like to offer a rebuttal. *farts*
Rick Guilt Rick: Gentlemen, gentlemen! I think we can all agree on one thing. *farts twice* Well, came out as two things, but you get the idea.
Candidate Morty: You guys finished?  The division I see is between the Ricks and Mortys that like the Citadel divided, and the rest of us. I see it everywhere I go.
Candidate Morty: I see it in our schools, where they teach Mortys we’re all the same because they’re threatened by what makes us unique.
Candidate Morty: I see it in our streets, where they give guns to Mortys so we’re too busy fighting each other to fight real injustice.
Candidate Morty: I see it in our factories, where Ricks work for a fraction of their boss’s salary, even though they’re identical and have the same IQ. The Citadel’s problem isn’t homeless Mortys or outraged Ricks.
Candidate Morty: The Citadel’s problem is the Ricks and Mortys feeding on the Citadel’s debt.
Rick J-22: Holy shit.
Rick Worker: He's headed for the Flavor Core!
Candidate Morty: But I’ve got a message for them, from the Ricks and Mortys keeping it alive. A message… from the Ricks and Mortys that believe in this Citadel to the Ricks and Mortys that don’t: you are outnumbered!
Campaign Manager Morty: Holy shit.  I don’t believe it! I-I can’t believe it!
Candidate Morty: I know. *puts a hand on his shoulder* That’s why you’re fired. *walks away*
Juggling Rick: Sounds like you’re looking for work. I can offer you a very enticing compensation package. *sets down bag and unzips it, pulling out three juggling clubs* First, let’s talk benefits.
Simple Rick: *mumbling to self* Daddy loves you… That’s Daddy’s good girl.
Rick J-22: *to Simple Rick* Your life is a lie, man. *to police* All your lives are lies! Don’t you get it?! They told us we were special because we were Ricks, but they stripped us of anything that made us unique!
Negotiator Rick: *through megaphone* We know how you feel. We’re working stiff Ricks just like you, but our assembly line is justice. What are your demands?
Rick J-22: *burp* I-I-I want a portal gun. Unregistered, untraceable, with enough fluid to take me off this goddamn prison!
SWAT Team Rick: The media’s outside.
Negotiator Rick: Well, keep ‘em there!
Rick D716-C: Anyway, so yeah, the suspect says the Citadel is a lie, built on lies, and some other shit.  I say, appreciate the life you have, because it can always be worse. Back to you, Ricks.
Rick D716: Thank you, Rick 716-C. *mumbling to D716-B* That fuckin’ guy.
Rick D716-B: Tell me about it.
Rick D716: Ahem. Meanwhile, in election news, an unexpected turn of events as Morty from the Morty Party soars to the top of the polls.
Candidate Morty: Yes?
Reporter Rick: Morty! What’s your original reality and where’s your Rick?
Candidate Morty: Gosh. We moved around so much it’s hard to remember. I see every Rick as my Rick.
Candidate Morty: I hope they see me as their Morty.
Campaign Manager Morty: *holding glass* Another, please, with less water.
Bartender Morty: *fixing a new drink* Hey, cheer up, pal! A Morty’s gonna be president. *gestures to TV* Imagine this kisser gettin’ blamed for everything!
Campaign Manager Morty: I guess I shoulda had more faith.
Investigator Rick: It’s not faith you need. It’s fear.
Campaign Manager Morty: What’s this?
Investigator Rick: *drains his glass* It’s secrets. Wh-wh-what do you think it is? *Gets up and walks away* Look at how I’m dressed.
Rick Reporter : Taking on the system like this, are you afraid at all for your safety?
Candidate Morty : I’d rather live in hope than fear.  If I had to fear anything, I’d fear other people being afraid. Of fear. Itself.
Candidate Morty : But no, I’m not afraid.
Mortytown Loco: Hey Rick, man, when there’s a Morty president, you gonna lick my balls or what?
Bootleg Rick: Shit, grandson, you keep me peelin’ squap-squams and slippin’ nib-nibs I’ll lick whatever ain’t nailed down.
Cop Rick: Hands in the air!
Mortytown Loco: What the hell, man? What the hell in hell?
Cop Morty: You guys doin’ a little chemistry homework with Grandpa?
Cop Rick: Is this what I think it is?
Cop Morty: Bootleg portal fluid.
Cop Morty: Guess his math was off. Search the place.
Psychopath Morty: A-Are you… m-my new… Rick?
Cop Rick: It’s okay, Morty.
Cop Morty: Jesus!
Cop Rick: He stabbed me! He got me bad, Morty.
Cop Morty: *approaches Rick and kneels down beside him* Shh, it’s okay, you’re okay.
Cop Rick: You were right… *cough* Everything I learned in the academy was--
Cop Morty: It doesn’t matter. *helps Rick to his feet* Nothing’s wrong with putting your faith in a Morty. You just gotta pick the right one.
Cop Rick: Why is there a crib in here?
Cop Morty: Just somethin’ they do to make you feel bad.
Cop Rick: Boy, I got us knee-deep in paperwork, huh?
Cop Morty: Go to the car and grab a MediPack. Lemme worry about this.
Cop Rick: What happened?
Cop Morty: Same old story. Mortys killing Mortys.
Lizard Morty: Almost... got it...
Farmer Rick: Hey, y'all get the hell away from my damn Megafruit!
Farmer Rick: Sic 'em, boy! *his robot dog gives chase; the four Mortys tumble down into a river* I don't wear this dangnap hat and commit to this rural character so you can eat for free while you come of age!
Fat Morty: I bet the Wishing Portal leads to a reality where there... where all... where it's a bunch of French toast with boobies.
Lizard Morty: I bet it leads to a place where a bunch of fri-- flies everywhere! *Slick feels peevish*
Slick: Yeah, I bet it goes nowhere. I bet it's a big hole where the Citadel dumps all its broken dreams.
Fat Morty: Slick, why do ya have to be so dramatic?
Slick: *stands up* You wanna know why? *lifts his shirt to reveal a large barcode on his abdomen* Because of this! I'm part of an experimental line of Mortys with a trauma implant. How do you think it feels, Fat Morty, to know that no matter where I go, *Glasses Morty comes over to Slick as he sits back down feeling depressed* I'll always be the one that makes everybody sad and... a little bored? *Glasses Morty consoles Slick*
Glasses Morty: Slick, that implant isn't who you are, okay? You also roll up your sleeves. *they hug each other*
Fat Morty: I thought I was Left-Handed Morty.
Lizard Morty: Then you should use your left hand to eat more vegetables.
Candidate Morty: Hey there. How you doing? Great to meet you. *greets a Plumber Rick*
Plumber Rick: I'm a plumber, sir! I-I'm a Rick and I'm a plumber!
Candidate Morty: That doesn't sound like Rick work. You didn't come to the Citadel to be a plumber, did you?
Plumber Rick: *laughs joyfully* I sure didn't, sir! *a blueshirt Rick carrying a Rick baby comes next to Plumber Rick*
Father Rick: Mr. Morty, Mr. Morty! *gives his baby Rick to him* I cloned myself so you can kiss me as a baby!
Candidate Morty: This is just like a Morty baby!
Candidate Morty: Hey! *they shake hands* Did you end up getting a new job?
Campaign Manager Morty: Yeah, I did. Assassinating you!
Candidate Morty: I'm okay... I'm okay... I'm... *falls unconscious* Ohh...
Builder Hat Morty: You look like you could use a good time! One dance for 10, two for 25!
Cop Rick: No thank you, and bad math. *see Bearded Morty enjoying Jeans Shorts Morty dancing*
Bearded Morty: Ha-ha, yeah! This is a good time!
Cop Rick: What is the place?
Cop Morty: "The Creepy Morty". What is it your kind's always saying? "Don't think about it." Come on. There's someone important I want you to meet.
Big Morty: Ah, Bubblah! How'd it go with the Mortytown Locos?
Cop Morty: They had a little accident. They won't be causing any trouble anymore.
Big Morty: Those were bad Mortys. Very bad Mortys. *snaps his finger, Morty Bouncer 2 gives an envelope to Cop Morty*
Cop Morty: Big Morty likes to contribute to keeping the peace in Mortytown. *takes out a wad of dollar bills* Think of him as a drug lord, and us his cops on his payroll. *throws bills to Cop Rick*
Cop Rick: Morty...
Morty Bouncers/Cop Morty: *all said at once* Which Morty?
Cop Rick: M-m-my partner. Morty, you're right. Mortytown is bad, but that doesn't mean that we have to be. *Cop Morty is shocked*
Big Morty: Hey, what's goin' on here, Morty?
Morty Bouncers: *both said at once* Which Morty?
Big Morty: The cop, morons.
Cop Morty: *nervously* Don't worry about Rick, Big Morty. He's new. He doesn't understand how it works.
Big Morty: That's what you said about your last partner. *Cop Rick feels suspicious about this*
Cop Morty: Wh-why would you say something like that, Big Morty? You're fucking things up for both of us here!
Big Morty: Wrong. He's fucking things up for both of you. Unless he takes the money. *both Morty Bouncers and Cop Morty stare at Cop Rick sceptically for a beat; Cop Rick turns to Big Morty*
Cop Rick: Big Morty, you're under arrest. *both Morty Bouncers take out their laser pistols*
Cop Morty: S-smartest man in the universe.
Cowboy Morty: *drops his cowboy pistols* They're just props! Th-they're just props!
Cop Morty: Not so big now, are ya?
Big Morty: I never was! It was figurative! *Cop Rick aims at Cop Morty*
Cop Rick: That's enough!
Cop Morty: If we don't kill him, he'll talk!
Cop Rick: If you do, I'll talk. *Cowboy Morty talks out to the group by the strip pole*
Cowboy Morty: One thing's for sure: y-y'all don't have to worry about Cowboy Morty talkin'! This little cowpoke's gonna mosey up on outta here! *walks away, Cop Rick turns to Cop Morty*
Cop Rick: You told me to put my faith in the right Morty. I got faith in you, partner. Do the right thing. *Cop Morty pauses for a beat, starts crying tears down his face*
Cop Morty: Oh, Grandpa Rick! I don't wanna be on the Citadel anymore! I want to be a regular kid! I want to go to school and throw balls around and masturbate!
Cop Rick: The hell happened in there?
Cop Rick: Same old story. Ricks killing Mortys.
Negotiator Rick: Okay, man, okay! We got your portal gun.
Negotiator Rick: The hell's he doing? *Rick J-22 first removes the pink tube connecting behind the headgear and throws the headgear off of Simple Rick; he wakes up immediately*
Simple Rick: Wh-where am I?
Rick J-22: A bad place, but you're going to a better one soon.
SWAT Team Rick: *bangs other side of window* Hey! Hey! *Rick J-22 fires a portal next to Simple Rick*
Negotiator Rick: No, no, no, no--!! *Rick J-22 pushes Simple Rick into the portal and is instantly blended with a geyser of blood* Goddammit!!
Rick J-22: A portal to the Blender Dimension?! That's the oldest trick in the book! I'm a Rick! I'm more Rick than any of you!!
Negotiator Rick: Then you should know you just killed your only leverage!
Rick J-22: Then come and get me, motherfuckers!!
Purple Suit Rick: Stop! *he wears a purple suit with green under shirt and green tie, purple top hat, and carries a gold cane* I'm Rick D. Sanchez III, owner of this here wafer establishment, and I say that the Rick in there is right! He's more Rick than any of you.
SWAT Team Rick: He's a terrorist!
Rick D. Sanchez III: What Rick isn't? *walks into the chamber to greet Rick J-22* The Citadel was founded by Ricks for Ricks to be free. *taps Rick J-22's head with his cane* What's your name, young man?
Rick J-22: Rick. And I'm--
Rick D. Sanchez III: Same age as me, I know. How long have worked here?
Rick J-22: Fifteen years.
Rick D. Sanchez III: What the hell have we become? *turns to the SWAT Team Ricks* Whatever time you were going to make him serve, he served it. It ends now! *walks up to Rick J-22* Come with me, friend.
Rick J-22: Where are we going?
Rick D. Sanchez III: To your new life, which starts with walking the fuck out of here.
Rick Worker: Yo, J-22! Give 'em hell!
Narrator: There's a Rick who held a factory hostage after murdering his boss and several co-workers. The factory made cookies, flavored him with lies.
Narrator: He made us all take a look at what we were doing, and at the bargain he got a taste of real freedom.
Narrator: We captured that taste, and we keep giving it to him so he can give it right back to you, in every bite of new Simple Rick Freedom Wafer Selects. *shows wafer displayed on screen* Come home to the unique flavor of shattering the grand illusion. Come home to Simple Rick.
Fat Morty: It is real! *Slick breaks the lock with a lead pipe and the gates open*
Slick: After you. *the four Mortys walk through the gate. Slick drops his pipe along the way*
Fat Morty: There it is... the Wishing Portal. They say for your wish to come true, y-you have to give up something really important. *takes a food machine out of his bag* For me, that's my panini maker. I wish for a million sandwiches! *drops his panini maker down the portal. He turns back to Lizard Morty* And yes, I see the irony.
Lizard Morty: I guess I wish I had something cooler than this dumbass surfer necklace. *throws necklace into portal; Glasses takes out a candy bar*
Glasses Morty: I wish incest porn h-had a more mainstream appeal, f-for a friend of mine. *Slick takes a step forward, feeling withdrawn*
Slick: None of those things are gonna happen, y'know. Morty wishes never come true. Not on the Citadel.
Lizard Morty: Then why did you bring us here?
Slick: Because I wish that would change. I wish anything about this life would change.
Glasses Morty: Well, I hope you're putting something pretty goddamn important in there.
Slick: Me, too. But I doubt it. *throws himself into the portal; Glasses and Lizard scream in shock*
Glasses Morty: NOOOOOOOO!!!!
Lizard Morty: SLI-I-I-I-I-I-I-ICK!!!!
Glasses Morty: Maybe... Maybe he went somewhere nice.
Rick PA Announcer: *via speaker* "Garbage dump. Stand *burp* back." *the three large pipes dump several amounts of garbage into the portal*
Campaign Manager Morty: *gets himself up* He gotta be stopped... *wipes bloodstain off his face* He-he cou-couldn't be allowed to win.
Bodyguard Rick: Then you should've *burp* worked on your aim, bro.
Campaign Manager Morty: He's alive?! No, no, no! You gotta listen to me! *shows his campaign badge* I-I worked for him! I was his campaign manager! That Morty is not what he seems.
Bodyguard Rick: Yeah, well, no Morty seems like a president.
Campaign Manager Morty: He... won?
Bodyguard Rick: Yeah. *the airlock door closes; Campaign Manager Morty immediately brings out the documents and cries out to the Bodyguard Ricks but to no avail*
Bodyguard Rick: It was a blowout. *pushes button on airlock panel and Campaign Manager Morty is instantly sucked out into space along with the dossier and its contents*
Bodyguard Rick: We hardly call it a blowout, it was almost close enough to trigger a recount.
Bodyguard Rick: Jesus, what are you, joke security now, too?
Cop Rick: Why am I still here? I already confessed to everything.
Officer Rick: Your case has been reviewed. *presses button, unlocks Cop Rick's handcuffs* You're free to go.
Cop Rick: But... I violated at least a dozen departmental codes!
Officer Rick: New department. New codes. *leaves room*
Officer Rick: New Citadel. *leaves with Officer Rick 1*
Glasses Morty: Did we miss graduation? Where are the new Ricks?
Teacher Rick: No graduation. No new Ricks. The school's curriculum is changing.
Glasses Morty: To what?
Teacher Rick: I don't know, and I don't have to know. I've been fired. *takes out a flask, unscrews top and walks off* Good luck, turds.
Lizard Morty: Holy crap... Slick's wish came true. *sees Glasses and Fat Morty smiling*
Rick D. Sanchez III: Sorry I'm late, Mr. President. Had a little crisis at work.
Steve Jobs Rick: Worth it! *eats Simple Rick wafer cookie; see President Morty having a haircut with Barber Rick*
President Morty: It's no problem. *to Barber Rick* Uh, a little more off the top. *continues* You were saying, Garment District Rick?
Garment District Rick: We were saying, *air-quotes* "President Morty," that we don't care who sits in that seat. A Rick, a Morty, a goddam Jerry, doesn't matter. We've been running the Citadel since before the Council, and you'll find that we're still running it now. *President Morty turns over holding a mirror*
President Morty: Does he really speak for everyone here?
Other Ricks: Yeah, yeah. *President Morty turns back again holding up the mirror*
President Morty: Well, I think it's important to be clear. Raise your hand if he speaks for you.
Barber Rick: *keeping his cool* Is that... enough off the top? *three more Officer Ricks enter*
President Morty: I don't know. *turns over the two remaining Ricks* Is it?
Steve Jobs Rick: *begging* Yes, yes, yes! Goddamn yes!
Good-Looking Rick: *begging* Yes, it's great!
President Morty: Good.
President Morty: This seems like a good time for a drink, and a cold, calculated speech with sinister overtones. A speech about politics, about order, brotherhood, power...
President Morty: But speeches are for campaigning. *looks into his glass of brandy and gives a sinister expression* Now... is the time for action.
Rick: Whoa!! Hahaha, yeah! Atlantis, baby!
Morty: That was amazing! *both take off their snorkels and flippers*
Rick: Got some of that mermaid puss!
Morty: I'm really hoping it wasn't a one-off thing and I can see her again. By the way, hey, um... still not curious about what might've happened at that crazy Citadel place?
Rick: *takes seaweed off his pants* Pssh! Not at all, Morty. That place will never have any bearing over our lives ever again. Unlike that mermaid puss! Yeah!! We're going back for seconds! We're gonna do that shit every week, man! That was Atlantis!
Morty: *as Rick continues celebrating* Whoo! Yeah! Yeaah! Ohhh, shit!
TV: In local news, child murderer Joseph Eli Lipnip is scheduled to die tomorrow by lethal injection, his execution already drawing dozens more spectators than the death of TV news. Carla?
Carla: The man that once ate his own son...
Beth: Wow. He's really getting executed after all this time. You know the son that he ate was...
Summer: Your best friend Tommy. We know. Stop true-crime bragging.
Beth: I was traumatized, Summer. Okay, your generation wouldn't get that.
Summer: Bitch, my generation gets traumatized for breakfast.
Beth: It took years of therapy to even process the reality. I mean, when I was a kid I just told myself that tommy had gotten lost in the magical realm of Froopyland.
Summer: "Froopyland?"
Beth: My make-believe world. I know the name's stupid, but it was so real to me.
Rick: Aren't you guys supposed to be at your father's for custody weekend?
Morty: We're not in a hurry. Dad sleeps until sundown. Can we talk a little bit more, about this Froopy...
Summer: Not the bubble gun! There's no air...
Beth: I gotta say, I am warming up to the bubble gun.
Rick: You know, if you're so great at naming things, why don't you do it from now on
Beth: What?
Rick: Froopyland. Was it my best work? I don't know. Does it deserve to be shit on creatively? Yeah, that's right. I agree with your look of horrified realization. You can be very inconsiderate sometimes.
Rick: Here it is. You know, I collapsed a quantum tesseract to...
Beth: Dad, I don't care how you made it. I want to know if Tommy's still in there!
Rick:  Relax, Beth.  If he is, we'll find him. He'll be the only sun-bleached skeleton with non-imaginary DNA.
Act One
Beth: Tommy! Tommy! This is a nightmare. I can't believe you used to lock me up in this glorified chicken coop.
Rick: Chicken coop?  Those are procedurally generated clouds, Beth. That river is a rainbow. Literally. Come on, I-I-I put real elbow grease into this place.
Beth: Well, you're supposed to put elbow grease into your daughter!
Rick: Gross.
Beth: Do you think something ate him?
Rick: Nope. Froopyland creatures were designed to be harmless. He definitely just starved to death.
Beth: I could have been the one who starved to death in here. What if I'd gotten hurt?
Rick: God you're right. I'm a terrible dad. Well, nothing to live for. Goodbye cruel world!
Beth: Dad!
Rick: Oh, how do you like that? What kind of merciless creature makes the ground bouncy? I'm gonna have to drown myself.
Beth: Unh!
Rick:  Oh, no. Oh, the water's breathable? Who went and did that?
Beth: Oh, whatever.
Rick:  Yeah, whatever. A dad makes a toilet look like R2-D2, and it breaks the front page of Reddit, but I'm Charles Manson because I gave you your own world instead of an iPad. I think the words you're looking for are... Aah!  Holy fuck! Shit! This thing has claws!
Beth: Yeah, I get it. It's a childproof world.
Rick: No, no, seriously, this hurts really bad! This thing is sinking its razor-sharp claws in...  Aah! Shit!
Beth: You've made your point, Dad.
Beth: Dad?
Summer: Whose idea was this stupid custody weekend thing?
Morty: I-I think it's supposed to help prevent abandonment issues.
Summer: I want to be abandoned.
Morty: Yeah, I'm talking about Dad.
Jerry: Bienvenue a la Chez Divorced Dad.
Summer: Wow, Dad. Your place looks way less like a crackhouse.
Morty: It's actually clean, like a cocaine house. Dad, what's going on?
Jerry: I'm simply centered, activated...
Morty: And telekinetic?
Jerry: Pretty cool, huh? Check it out. Who wants a smoothie?
Jerry:  Oh... Oh, no. Uh, oh, God. Summer... Summer, can you...
Summer: Aah!
Jerry: Sorry.
Kiara: You have much to learn, my Uloo.
Jerry: Morty, Summer, this is Kiara. She's a Krootabulan warrior priestess from Krootabulon.
Morty: Rick, we did it! W-we got it!
Rick: Hurry up, Morty get in!
Morty: Chachi!
Rick: Fuck Chachi, Morty! Did you get it?
Morty: He helped me escape prison!
Rick: Did you get the Ultimate Cube?
Rick: Oh, it's purple.
Morty: You said it was purple.
Rick: I said mine was, I didn't know they all were.
Rick: And now we do, thanks to Chichi.
Morty: Chachi!
Morty: So, uh...w-w-when do I get it?
Rick: Get what, a hug? Let's find a planet with a garden hose first?
Morty: A dragon!
Rick: A dragon?
Morty: You asked me to cut class and fight robots with, I said no, you said millions of lives depend on it, I said I'll do it for a dragon, you said whatever, I want my dragon!
Rick: You know who's into dragons, Morty? Nerds that refuse to admit they're Christian.
Morty: I want my dragon!
Rick: Let me get you rocket shoes, l-let me get you Wolverine claws, let me get you a fucking rocket hat! Just make sure to use it with rocket shoes or it'll rip your head off.
Morty: I want my dragon, I want my dragon, I want my dragon—!
Rick: Oh crap. {coughs} Crap!
{Rick is instantly knocked out, sending the ship hurdling towards Earth. The scene cuts to a hospital where Beth by her father's side who is on a bed in casts as a result of the crash.)
Beth: Dad, are you okay? Your ship crashed in Balta.
Rick: {grunts} I'm okay.
Beth: Oh, thank god.
Beth: Dad, did you promise Morty a dragon?
Rick: AAAAAAARGH!
Rick: Oh shit, I almost parked but Morty hold on wat-watch this.
Morty: Uh-huh.
Rick: Well I thought it was cool. So should be in and out, simple exchange, not even an adventure. And if anything goes wrong which it won't, jump into the same vat of acid I jump into.
Morty: Okay. W-wait what? Wha-what vat of acid?
Rick: What, Morty! Close the door.
Rick: I pre-scouted this location and placed a vat of fake acid amongst the real ones. It's got air horses and a compartment of bones at the bottom. If things go wrong, which they won't, we jump onto the vat of acid and I'll release the bones, they'll float up-
Rick: What is this face you're making?
Morty: Aren't you an inventor?
Rick: Yeah, what part of a fake acid vat with built-in air supply and quick release bones isn't inventive enough for you and when did my job become pitching you ideas?
Morty: Alright! Let's just do this. I have English homework.
Rick: You're still learning English? That's the language you speak. How dumb are you?
]
Lead Gangster: Intresting choice of meeting place, Rick.
Rick: You like it? My grandson had notes.
Morty: Come on.
Rick: Show him the crystals, Morty.
Lead Gangster: I'll make lots of money with these.
Rick: I'll make lots of those with these.
Lead Gangster: Well, those are fake.
Rick: Oh, Jesus fucking Christ. Come on.
Morty : You gotta be kidding me. Seriously?
Rick: You brought fake crystals and a gun?
Lead Gangster: Beats real crystals and no gun.
Rick: Okay, but does anything beat fake crystals and a fake arm?
Lead Gangster: Whoa, do you know who I am?! Even if you kill me, you're a dead man.
Rick: Are you serious? Morty, he's right we're screwed. Let's just end it, quik death come on.
Morty: Aw, man. Oh!
Morty: Ohhhhh!
The Dealer Group: Woah, Hey, Oh My God!
Lead Gangster: Holy Shit! What the Fuck?
Moustached Goon: Holy Shit.
Lead Gangster: What kind of psycho? His own grandson?
Moustached Goon: Guess he took your threat pretty serious.
Lead Gangster: Yeah, but it just doesn't make any sense.
Black Coat Goon: Well, he was a scientist. Maybe he knew more about acid, maybe it's like the most painless way to go.
Lead Gangster: How could that have been painless? You saw that pause before the bones floated up. That has to be like five seconds of unparalleled torture. I can't get my head around it. I, I thought I'd seen this galaxy at it's darkest. This is going to take a while to feel normal.
Mustached Goon: We're pretty good listeners boss, drinks are on us if you want to talk it out.
Lead Gangster: Thanks, but what happened, it happened here. I don't wanna lose the moment.
Black Coat Goon: Take your time, boss. We'll stay as long as you want.
Mustached Goon: Absolutely, I got nowhere to be.
Plot
Lead Gangster: And then, little Tommy Flim-flam's running down the Hyperloop. His ass is on fire from Xenon fluid, but his AI hologram is fucking his own Pee hole.
Black Coat Goon: Great story boss.
Mustached Goon: Really detailed
Lead Gangster: Yeah, well I got a million of 'em. All right, I think I'm ready to deal with the world now. Let's geet out of here.
Mustached Goon: Should we drop our buddy in here before we go?
Lead Gangster: Yeah, probably a good idea.
[Rick prepares to open the trapdoor with spare bones.
Mustached Goon: Should we use a different vat? Does acid lose its acid power the more it dissolves?
Black Coat Goon: What am I, an Acidologist? Here grab that rat-like creature. We'll do a little test.
Lead Gangster: Look, if you the damn acid, don't use a rat. Take that ladle, grab a spoonful and put it in the analyzer.
Lead Gangster: I'd say that's pretty acidy, drop him in.
Lead Gangster: What are you doing?
Mustached Goon: You said-
Lead Gangster: Not the rat, the guy.
Mustached Goon: Ohhh!
Lead Gangster: Look at the size of the bones on that rat.
Mustached Goon: Oh, how many sets of bones this rat got?
Black Coat Goon: Look how the smaller ones are shaped, their like little cartoon bones. Like if you dreaw a bone in art class.
Lead Gangster: Alright that tears it, I'm cancelling of the rest of my night and calling a bone scientist. We're getting to the bottom of this-
Morty: Jesus Fucking Chist enough already!
Morty; Can we go?
Rick: The fuck is wrong with you?!
Morty: Just admit is was a shitty idea!
Rick: Having a grandson?!
Morty: A vat of fake acid, are you dying of dementia?!
Rick: How are you talking to me like this? Wh-whe-When did you get so cocky?
Morty: Tonight! Tonight Rick. The night I saw you fail.
Rick: Because you ruined it!
Morty: It was pre-ruined!
Rick: Oh was it worse than when I was a pickle? Oh-oh-oh, that's right, you weren't there for that, turns out kind of cool. Maybe there's a connection there
Morty: Excuse me?
Rick: What's that cool thing you did without me again? The awesome thing? I-I-I guess you wanted a dragon? *Does a chef's kiss Unforgettable.
Morty: God fuck you
Rick: Timely too, you really got in that "Game of Thrones" fever right at the peak
Morty: You trying as hard as you can to hurt me right now proves my point.
Rick: I'll let you know when you have a point and the world will know whe I try to hurt you.
Morty: Big man, big genius, big lonely drunk.
Rick: Hey save some of these atomic-age beatnik zingers for your English homework, Bukowski.
RIck: There's no such thing as a bad idea, Morty. It's about execution.
Morty: No such thing as a bad idea except all of mine, right?
Rick: Morty, wanting a dragon isn't an idea.
Morty: I'm not talking about that! I'm constantly pitching you ideas, Rick, and you act like they're not even worth thinking about.
Rick: What, the helicopter lawn chair? That's just something you saw on TV.
Morty: What about my video-game-style place-saving device?
Rick: Oh my God, here we go.
Morty: It's a good idea, Rick! A device that lets you-
Rick: Save your place like in a video game but in real life so that you can try stuff and then go back to your save point, yes Morty, I saw it on "Futurama."
Morty: Oh, so you don't do anything unless it's original?
Rick:I don't do time travel.
Morty: It's not time travel, it's saving a place in time-
Rick: Oh my God, is this what you think I do? This is where the heavylifting happens in your mind? Do you have any idea how much fucking work would have to go into a machine that-
Morty: Ah-ha! You can't do it.
Rick: I can do anything, Morty. Your idea is not worth doing.
Morty: You can't do it.
Rick: Before what you're trying to do was called "negging," it was called "reverse psychology" and incels didn't incent it, Bugs Bunny did.
Morty: You can't do it.
Rick: There is nothing I cannot do.
Morty: A place-saving video-game thing!
Rick: You're a piece of shit!
Morty: Just say you can't do it!
Rick: I won't
Morty: You won't say you can't?
Rick: Fuck you, Morty!
Morty: Fuck you!
Rick: Fuck you!
Morty: So are you gonna-
Rick: Yes, I'm gonna fucking do it!
Morty: Rick, it's 3 am...
Rick: You were right Morty sighs I failed, I can't make it. And honestly I'm pretty ashamed, that might be what I've been so aggressive and unfair about rejecting your ideas.
Morty: Rick..
Rick: A vat of fake acid, Morty? Maybe I've lost it
Morty: H-Hey cmon you know I didn't mean it that way. I just think we need to find better ways to communicate
Rick: I'm sorry I just... lash out sometimes. I-I-I don't know what I do that, I am so ashamed of myself. Hearing you talk about the vat, it really opened my eyes. Like what the fuck am I even doing
Morty: Hey-Hey I don't like hearing this talk, you're a great inventor, we just got a couple of things to work on, let's start with inventing a little honesty, sound good?
Rick: Thank you Morty, sounds good. Or maybe I'll just kill you
Morty: What? Whoa Whao Whao Whao Rick
Rick: Because I fucking did it!
Morty: You did it!
Rick: I did it you son of a bitch!
Morty: How did you?
Rick: Morty do you want me to explain, or do you wanna go have fun
Morty: I wanna go have some fun! Rick this is this is thank you
Rick: You can thank me later, go nuts.
Morty: Best grandpa ever!
Rick: that's all I ever wanted to hear
Morty: Come on Rick, w-we're almost there.
Rick: Leave me Morty. It's the only way.
Rick:  Wha-were-were we Blades in that one? That's fucking tight.
Morty: Just stay with me.
Rick:  I'm scared, Morty. I can see the end. I'm a silly man. I'm a small, silly man.
Rick: I'm sorry I got you into this.
Morty:  Then how about I get us out of this?
Jessica: Hello?
Morty: I-It's Morty. From school.
Jessica: Oh hey, Morty. What's up?
Morty: Um, I just want to say that you're really great and I'm sorry that the timing never really worked out with us, but you're really great and I wish I got to know you better.
Jessica: Oh, I mean, that's a lot.
Morty: Oh, uh, yeah, sorry, I guess I just...
Jessica: No, I just wish you'd said it sooner.
Morty: Wh-What?
Jessica: Yeah, I mean being nervous is sort of selfish sometimes, you know?
Ship alarm: Life support systems failing.
Morty: Yeah, that's a great point.
Jessica: Well, what are you doing tonight?
Morty: Tonight?
Jessica: Yeah, do you, like, want to watch a movie or something?
Morty: Um, yeah, tonight. Sounds great.  Holy shit! Holy shit! Come on, come on!
Rick: Ugh, where are we?
Morty: We're home, Rick. I landed us in the ocean.
Rick: The ocean? The ocean on Earth?!
Morty: Uh, yeah, I guess so.
Rick: Oh, shit. Holy shit. We have to go. We have to go right fucking now!
Morty: What?
Rick: You touched the ocean, Morty. Oh fuck! Shit!
Mr. Nimbus: Richard! You have desecrated the sacred treaty betwixt land and sea! Now face the wrath of your once and eternal foe... Mr. Nimbus!
Morty: Sorry, who is that?
Rick: My... nemesis.
Morty: What?
Rick: My fucking nemesis, okay?!
Morty: Okay, but what was his name again?
Mr. Nimbus: I am Mr. Nimbus!
Rick: He's gonna say that a lot.
Beth: You two are hungry.
Rick: Big day.
Morty: We're gonna kill God.
Jerry: Come again?
Rick: Christian God is real, he's been asleep for thousands of years. We're gonna sneak up there and kill him.
Morty: Mob style.
Rick: Whack his ass.
Summer: Can I kill God?
Rick:  Fuck off, Summer.
Morty:  Pfft, as if!
Jerry: Beth, do you hear this?
Beth: Sweetie, don't get all worked up before your job interview.
Rick: Job interview?
Jerry: Yes, is that so hard to believe?
Rick: Actually, yeah. Something's off.
Beth: No!
Morty: Shit!
Mr. Always Wants To Be Hunted: Hunt me, hunt me, somebody hunt me!
Rick: Don't hunt him to completion!
Mr. Always Wants To Be Hunted: Hunt me!
Rick: Oh. Shit. Everyone start packing, no time to explain.
Jerry: Rick?
Beth: Dad? What's wrong?
Rick: Someone just killed a decoy family.
Mr. Always Wants To Be Hunted: I'm Mr. Always Wants To Be Hunted!
Rick: Yes, and how interesting did you think that would stay?
Morty: You made clones of us?
Rick: Decoys, Morty. Very different.  Very different, sweetie.
Morty: Different h-ow!
Beth: Yeah, dad. Different h-ow?
Rick: Lotta people out there want a piece of this, sweetie. I'm cool, and it makes them feel bad. So, y'know, after that trouble with Space Beth, I made passable copies of the family and placed them around the country as a buffer zone to protect–
Jerry: But why does he always want to be hunted?
Beth: Jerry–
Morty: It's not important right now, dad!
Jerry: Sure, guys. Rick can make secret decoys of the family and place them all around the country, but fuck me if I have questions about the starfish man in a target suit.
Summer: So thankful this is my Saturday.
Jerry: Why was he in that cryopod?
Rick: The cryopod is what confuses you? Jerry, can't you see we've moved on to higher stakes?
Jerry: Well, I don't see any stakes at all.
Rick: Ah, shit!
Jerry: Guess we'll just be saying "ciao bella" to our deposit, then!
Rick: Shut up and pack, Jerry. Squids just killed a decoy family.
Beth: Decoy family?
Morty: Is this why you wanted to get out of town?
Rick: You think I'd lie to you about why we're on vacation, Morty? I wouldn't lie to you.  Well, that's a lie. Huh.
Summer: So someone out there is trying to kill us?
Rick: Someone's always trying to kill us. That's what the decoys are for. They go on fun, self-contained terrestrial adventures, and– take bullets meant for us. Shit.
Jerry: Ahhh! No!
Rick: Ah, shit. Decoy family.
Morty: I think dad was still outside. What's a decoy family?
Rick: Hard concept, Morty. Hard concept. I've never really cracked it, if I'm being honest. Decided it was maybe better as a kind of kinetic mislead for another special episode!
Morty: Oh, cool!
TV: We now return to When Wolf.
Rick: Woah, a time traveling wolf? Count me in.
Morty: Yeah, I never thought of the "were" in "werewolf" like "who, what, when and where!" Clever wordplay!
Dracula: When Wolf!
When Wolf: Dracula! You know why I'm here.
Dracula: I'm safe here, Ian! Christianity hasn't been invented yet, crosses are just baby t's to me now! I got out. Please, don't invite me back in.
Morty: Huh, kinda mucked it up with this Dracula stuff.
Rick: You're right. It shows a lack of faith in their core concept. I'd much rather watch When Wolf go to the 20's and invest in the stock market, but then eat people.
Morty: Yeah.
Rick: Look, if you really want to know what happened to Beth's mom, it– whoop. Squid aliens just killed a decoy family.
Beth: Decoy family? You made more clones?
Rick: Clones are, like, thirty-two percent of all sci-fi, sweetie. You don't get to own clones. Yes, I made some decoys. They're exactly like us, with a few tweaks and a backdoor shutdown.
Beth: Do you just get hard creating sentient life?
Rick: Actually, I get hard protecting my family!
Summer: Ew.
Morty: Ugh, gross!
Beth: Yeah, now everyone gets killer doppelgängers. Cool deal.
Rick: The decoys are harmless, Beth.
Summer: Grandpa Rick, do the decoys know they're decoys?
Rick: They wouldn't be very good decoys if they did, Sum-sum.
Summer: So they think they're us?
Rick: That's the deal.
Summer: How do you know we're not decoys?  Oh my god, we're decoys.
Rick: Oh, god! We might not be real! We might be decoys! Morty, quick!
Morty: What do I do?
Rick: My failsafe, Morty. My final, secret failsafe. It proves I'm real, you have to help me, I'd never joke about this.  There's a barcode, Morty. A barcode on the interior of my left ass cheek.
Morty: What?
Rick: Morty, please, I'm begging you!
Morty: I'm not looking at your ass!
Rick: Please, Morty, is it there? God damn it!  Just tell me if I'm real!
Summer: Morty, do it!
Morty: Gross!
Beth: Dad!
Rick: Summer, you fucking idiot. We're not decoys.
Morty: Why did I get punished?
Rick: A, decoys don't build decoys, and B, you think the mere suggestion I'm fake would break me? Christ, I'm not your mom.
Beth: Fuck off.
Rick: Jeez, these guys really wanna kill me bad. Alright, here's the plan. We're gonna hide out with a decoy family, and when these squids show up, we jump their asses. Jerry! Come on! Family emergency!
Jerry: A bigger emergency than my lemon squares not setting? They're gluten free, sugar free, and lemon free!
Decoy Rick: Think you got the wrong house, bro.
Rick: Analysis mode, password 8-0-0-8-5.
Beth: Kind of expected a funnier password.
Rick: I didn't plan on showing them off.
Morty:  Damn, like Westworld!
Rick: Yes, Morty, like Westworld. But don't fuck them.  Summer!
Summer: Whatever, creep. I'm gonna see how accurate you got my room.
Morty: Rick, when you say you made an exact replica of the house, did you mean like, you know, an exact replica?
Rick: I know about the Yosemite t-shirt, Morty.
Morty: Shit.
Rick: You know you can use tissues, right?
Morty: I can't finish without it.
Beth: So you do know what a happy family looks like.
Rick: I know what a fake one looks like.
Morty: Uh, Rick?
Rick:  What?
Morty: Did you use this house to make decoys, too?
Rick:  What? Morty, why the fuck would I do that? You think I'd go somewhere else to–  okay, well, I am now less worried about the squids.  Isolate head at normal processing.  What the fuck do you think you're doing down there? You're making decoys?
Decoy Rick: Wait, how do you—oh god, Summer was right.
Rick: Everyone in the car.
Beth: You said decoys didn't make decoys.
Rick: And usually, they don't, but again, it's nothing to worry about, because decoys are harmless.  Just have to, y'know, visit the rest and terminate the program.
Beth: Terminate? They're alive, dad!
Rick: And at some point, they won't be. That's how existing works. What, are you going to save every stray cat?
Beth: No, but I can resist making more of them in a lab.
Rick: Ugh. Look, save the empathy. It's more termite infestation than Blade Runner.
Summer: I still think we're decoys.
Morty: You just want an excuse to stop trying.
Summer: Yeah, and?
Jerry:  Oooh, there's a handsome fellow!
Rick: Uh-oh.
Beth: I thought you made them harmless.
Rick: I don't remember making this one.
Decoy Jerry: Oh, hi, Rick! Family...me...? Hey, when did you all leave?
Rick: Analysis mode, 8-0-0-8-5.
Decoy Jerry: Hmm?
Rick: Nothing, buddy. You gotta stop with all that coffee, it's making you loopy! Happy analysis mode!
Decoy Jerry: Happy analysis mode to you, too!
Decoy Rick: Think you got the wrong house, bro.
Rick: Analysis mode, password 8-0-0–
Decoy Rick: Shit, you think I'm a decoy?
Rick: How do you know about the decoys?
Decoy Rick: They were my idea!
Decoy Jerry:  Well, now I know you're pranking me.
Second Rick: Analysis mode, password 8 equals sign equals sign capital "d".
Rick: Hide.
Morty: What?
Rick: Hide!
Second Morty: Wow, like Ex Machina!
Second Rick: Yes, Morty, like Ex Machina. But don't fuck them. Summer!
Second Summer: Whatever, weirdo. I'm gonna see how wrong you got my room.
Second Beth: So you do know what a loving family looks like.
Second Rick: A simulated one, yes.
Beth: Why are we hiding?
Rick: He thinks he's me, and I was about to start terminating decoys.
Beth: But we're not decoys!
Rick: Sure, tell him that.
Second Morty: Rick, did you make decoys here, too?
Second Rick: Morty, for what reason could I have for...what the– isolate head at normal processing!  You dumb asshole, you made decoys?
Decoy Rick: Again, they were my idea. Wait, what happened to the other guy?
Second Rick: Other guy?
Decoy Rick: Wait, that means I'm a decoy. Fucking Summer.
Second Rick: Check the closets.
Second Rick: They've gone rogue!
Rick: Killer decoys!
Second Rick: Take out the decoys!
Decoy Rick: Shit! Someone put a gun in my teeth!
Second Beth: Stop shooting, dad! They're us, we don't have to fight them!
Second Rick: Classic prisoner's dilemma, Beth. I'm a cool guy, I, you know, I can talk it out. But that asshole–
Rick: Me? You decoy piece of shit. You're the one that shot first!
Beth: We can work this out, just stop trying to kill each other!
Second Rick: Sorry, decoy Beth, but this only ends one way, with one of us accepting we're a decoy.
Rick: And once he knows he's a decoy, he know he won't be safe until he's killed the real Rick, along with anyone who think he's him.
Second Rick: Pretty perceptive, for a decoy.
Rick: This is getting nowhere. Let's charge their asses on three.
Morty: Do we have to do this?
Rick: Morty, this is gonna sound bad, but...would you trust me not to kill you?
Summer: Oof.
Morty: I mean, good point, but Jesus Christ.
Second Rick: We rush them on three. Ready?
Second Morty: I don't want to kill us, Rick!
Second Rick: It's them or us, Morty. I don't trust me. Do you trust you?
Second Morty: Yes?
Second Rick: Freak.
Rick: Before you say anything, they were already killing each other.
Beth: Well, you could've done something.
Rick: Not sure, actually. I've heard stories about this. We're looking at a possible Asimov Cascade.
Jerry: Sorry, what's happening?
Summer: I need an explainer, too.
Morty: Yeah, I'm pretty much behind on this one.
Rick: Car, can I get a whiteboard?  When squids started killing decoys, decoys started checking their decoys and learning that they're making decoys. That's making them seek out and run into other decoys, making them realize they're decoys, making them start to kill other decoys.
Summer: Say decoy again.
Rick: Fuck you.
Beth: Well, how do we stop it?
Rick: Beth, the loop's already started. It's basically Highlander rules now.  Really? 1986? "There can be only one?" Shit, we gotta rent it after this. Connery plays "the spaniard" but does nothing about his accent.
Morty: Well, what about the squids? I mean, they started this, would killing them finish it?
Rick: Might work. Alt pitch, we just terminate the rest of the decoys.
Beth: Nobody's terminating anything. This is your mess, nobody else with our face and memories has to die.
Rick: Beth, as much as your passion warms my cold, cold heart, this thing feels pretty far gone. Not only are the decoys liable to be anywhere, but also, we don't know how many decoys there are. You get far enough down the decoy line and shit starts to get weird. You ever make a copy of a copy?
Beth: You're helping us fix this. We're taking out the squids.
Jerry: I say we split up! Some of us take down squids, while the rest of us–
Rick: Engage in B stories we'll have to track simultaneously? No thank you! We stick together till this is all wrapped up.
Summer: I dunno, the squids seem pretty good at taking out Smith families.
Rick: Well, this'll sound weird, but I think I have a pitch for that.
Summer: This costume smells like ass!
Rick: God, there's no pleasing you!
Morty: It's really bad, Rick.
Summer: Did you let a gym coach break it in?
Jerry: Why are we wearing these?
Rick: Because we'll fit in and avoid detection as we take out all the squids. Might also help us anonymously take out excess decoys, if we have to.
Beth: Which we won't.
Summer: Unless we're decoys. He's starting to wonder! I knew it. I knew we didn't seem like Colorado people.
Beth:  Oh my god! You are, aren't you? You're worried you might be fake!
Rick: Sure, Beth. Try to love this more.
Beth: Just glad you have to walk a mile in someone else's squid costumes.
Morty: There's one.  Hey, what're they mad at you for, anyway?
Rick: Well, we're talking about me. It could be anything. Maybe jealous of my penis size, I had sex with their queen, my dick's too big, the list goes on and on.
Rick: Alright, hey, one down! Probably, what, forty more to go? Forty-five? Should be pretty easy, unless killing them brings in a bigger bad or some kind of horrible mothership. Okay, let's loot their ship, find their weaknesses, be done by sundown.
Rick: Huh.
Morty: Wait, but if the squids are decoys and we dressed as squids...
Summer: Well, I found their weakness. They don't fucking listen to me!
Rick: Honestly, probably for the best.
Rick:  Man, I'm good.
Beth: Dad!
on it. He sighs, defeated. A Rick walks through the house, gun drawn, when another Rick leaps out of the closet and starts beating him with a pipe. A third Rick, painted to blend with the wall, watches. Summer cuts her arm and is relieved to see blood, but Rick pulls the skin off her arm, revealing a metallic skeleton. Two squid ships fly next to each other. One Rick takes off his helmet. When he sees the other squid is also a Rick, he sighs and shoots himself. The montage ends as the Smiths run through the woods. Rick's watch beeps.]
Rick: Oh, shit. One of mine.
Morty: Where are we going?
Rick: Off grid, Morty. We're gonna live in the woods, like libertarians. We'll hunt rabbits and trade with, like, little pieces of gold bar that we cut off with a knife.
Summer: That licks.
Rick: We might be decoys, Summer. Everything about this licks.
Beth: Oh, maybe now you'll empathize with the decoys you're killing!
Rick: Wait, shhh. It's too quiet.
Summer: You skipped quiet.
Rick: I didn't skip shit. It's obviously quiet if it's too quiet.
Summer: Yeah, but you're supposed to say–
Rick: You know what, Summer, now it's not quiet enough!
Morty: Where are we? Where's Rick?
Scarecrow Rick: He's right here, Morty!  Oh, are we not happy to see grandpa? Does he look...different?
Jerry:  Oh, god!
Morty:  Ugh, it stinks!
Scarecrow Rick: Yes, recoil at the craftsmanship. I could tell I was a fake from the day I was born. Unlike you. Unlike them.
Scarecrow Rick: You see, Ricks, they get lazy. There's always a shitty decoy towards the end. But those decoys made decoys too, and got lazy themselves. And far enough down the line...there be monsters.
Summer: Ugh, we get it, you're ugly and mad about it.
Jerry:  Rick!
Summer:  Grandpa!
Rick: Kill me... if I ever get this arch.
Scarecrow Rick: Hush, little decoy. Can't kill you yet. The skin needs to be fresh.
Beth: You know what? You're a monster.
Scarecrow Rick: I'm your father! At least, I can look more like him once I harvest all this yummy skin.
Rick: This guy's really into skin.
Scarecrow Rick: It's not all for me. A Rick provides for his family.
Scarecrow Beth: Will I beautiful again, daddy?
Scarecrow Rick: Soon, baby. Beautiful again soon.
Scarecrow Rick: What the–
Glockenspiel Rick: Help the others!
Beth: Why are you helping us?
Glockenspiel Rick: Because we're all in this together. Come on! There's a place we can go!
and land in a canyon. Glockenspiel Rick presses his hand to a sensor in the canyon wall and a door opens. The group walks through, revealing a hall full of decoy families. Glockenspiel Jerry approaches his kids, holding a can of varnish.]
Glockenspiel Jerry: Hey, who needs all this war stuff? I found a can of varnish. This is a ticket to the world beyond the river!
Glockenspiel Summer: Who wants that? I crave glorious death in decoy battle!
Glockenspiel Morty: Also, y'know, depending on the varnish, might look like blackface.
Glockenspiel Jerry: Excuse me for wanting to live.
Glockenspiel Beth: Brothers and sisters, welcome to the cause. To our cause. We are no longer Ricks and Mortys, Beths and Jerrys, or also Summers.
Decoy Summer: Whatever.
Decoy Summer: Asshole!
Glockenspiel Beth: We are decoys. Brought into the world by an unloving god, and drive to destroy ourselves by the uncertainty he creates!
Decoy Rick: I don't know if that's accurate.
Decoy Rick: Sounds extreme.
Glockenspiel Beth: But that violence ends today!
Decoy Jerry: What about the squids?
Decoy Beth:  The squids are decoys!
Decoy Summer:  There were no squids!
Other Decoy Summer: The squids are decoys who realized they're decoys and wanted to kill the other decoys.
Other Decoy Jerry: Yeah, it is a lot.
Glockenspiel Beth: We cannot let confusion divide us!
Decoy Morty: Squids! Squids, of course, being shorthand for killer decoys!
Glockenspiel Rick: Inner sanctum, the escape tunnel!
Glockenspiel Jerry: I'm sorry, I didn't ask for this! I just wanna live! But there's only so much varnish! I'm sorry, I'm sorry!
Beth: How long before the other decoys find us?
Rick: Sooner or later. Can't really run from it. Any place we'd think to hide is a place they'd think to look. It's Rule 34 of an Asimov Cascade.
Beth: I'm just glad we're living to the fullest with the time we have left.
Summer:  Well, peeing in the ocean was my bucket list item. Who's next?
Rick: Jerry? Bucket list?
Jerry: I'd like to attend a game at every major league ballpark.
Rick: Nope! Morty?
Morty: I wanna ask a girl out at my weird New Mexico school.
Rick: Shit. Sorry, buddy. Sounds like it would've been real heartwarming.
Morty: They looked happy. Did we have to kill them?
Beth: Well, maybe their Rick came to grips with his bullshit!
Rick: You're so mean today! I'm your dad, you like having me around!
Beth: You keep putting us in danger!
Rick: Whatever. This'll take forever, mind if I do something drastic?
Rick: House, I need something quick. Can you whip up a Star Fox boss season four callback? Make it flashy?
House: You got it, babe.
Rick:  Let's go, you little bitch.  It's showtime.  Get centered.
Rick: What up, you decoy motherfuckers? Come on down to Rick's house of squids, where I'm serving your ass on a platter!  I know what you're thinking: "Fuck, a beacon! That's a great idea! He's got home turf,  a tacit psychological advantage, and absolutely pendulous balls!"  And now you're thinking "shit, that's totally what the rick-est Rick would do! I might actually be fake!  I pretended I didn't care if I was, but I totally did! Now the only way to prove I'm real and not him is to ice his expository ass."  Yup. So let's do it. Come get some. What? No, Morty, I'm gonna loop it. Why is it–
Steve: Sir, there seems to be a confluence of Rick Sanchezes killing each other over the American Southwest.
The President: Sounds exhausting. How many of those states voted for me, anyway?
Steve: Mr. President, I think the point of the electoral collage is–
The President: To preserve slavery? That's right, Steve. I have the internet too. Now take your white ass to the kitchenette and bring me a Diet Coke.
Rick: Little out of character to say this right now, but you guys look really cool.
Morty: We might be decoys, huh.
Rick: One way to find out.
Second Rick: Looks like it's calming down. You wanna get in one more "I told you so" about synthetic life or whatever this week's theme is?
Second Beth: Oh, fuck you.
Second Rick:  Whoa.
Second Beth: No, you don't get to be annoyed with this! You treat life and family as so burdensome, and yet you created an ocean of us because you're terrified of losing either!
Second Rick: Shit.
Second Beth: Yeah.
Second Rick: Look, Beth, I might not be the real Rick. But even if I'm not, he made me, or the me that made me. Which means somewhere inside of him is a version of Rick capable of hearing that. A version of Rick who's sorry. I'm sorry about the clone thing, too. I love you.
Second Beth: Thanks, dad.I love you, too. You really think we're decoys?
Second Rick: Eh. Who cares? We'll be the last ones left. Lucky that one did the beacon, this was gonna take weeks.  Alright, let's mop up.
Second Beth: Finally.
Second Rick: Dressing as decoys too cute to murder. You know, I'm not sure it helped, but I'm glad we tried it.
Second Morty: We're losing the costumes?
Second Summer: Thank god, this decoy outfit smells like ass.
Second Rick: Fuck you, Summer.
Second Rick: Shit, that guy's awesome. Okay, listen, he might actually be the real Rick. But whatever happens–
Summer: Wait! We don't have to do this. We're both Summers. Shouldn't we at least try molly before we die?
Second Summer: You know what, yeah. Fuck this noise.
Second Summer: Wait, I don't know who to shoot.
Both Mortys: Summer!
Second Summer: I can't deal with this. I had to kill myself. You have too, to.
Both Mortys: Summer!
Rick: Fuck you, I'm real! I'm the smartest man in the universe!
Second Rick: Probably not even wrong. But that's just it. I'm not a man. I'm God!
Second Rick: You're just made in my image.
Rick: Fuck you.
Second Rick: You the, uh, Summer I came with?
Second Summer: Probably.
Second Rick: Good enough. Morty?
Morty: Yeah.
Beth: I'm here, too.
Second Rick: Holy shit, that was insane! I love you guys, I've totally changed!
Second Rick: Oh, fuck.
Mr. Always Wants To Be Hunted: You shoulda hunted me.
Second Rick: What? Who—were you significant? Like, did we tee you up? You want to be hunted? God, I have so many questions. Why? What happens if–
Mr. Always Wants To Be Hunted: Somebody hunt me!
Rick: Pretty cool adventure, huh? Big, long road trip adventure through space? Even ran into Space Beth. Maybe that'll happen more often!
Space Beth: Let's not overdo it.
Rick: Oh, shit. Looks like someone killed the decoy family.
Beth:  Decoy family?
Space Beth:  Decoy what now?
Glockenspiel Jerry: Hello?
Glockenspiel Jerry: Oh, oh my god! Oh my god!
Glockenspiel Jerry: No! No, no no, no no no no no!
Glockenspiel Jerry: Nooooo!
Glockenspiel Jerry: Oh god. Yes, yes, sweet death.
Glockenspiel Jerry: Why am I still alive? Oh, god. Is there anything left? Hello?
Woodpecker: What is it?
Dolphin: A relic...from a kinder past.
Glockenspiel Jerry: Wait, cowboys?
Glockenspiel Jerry: Christianity again? After cowboys? You went all the way back around?!
Glockenspiel Jerry: Oh god, why can't I die? This is the worst thing that's ever happened to anyone!
Morty: Are we - are we gonna put it back when we're done with it?
Rick: Why? The only thing of value on it is the secret treasure map. The rest is just instructions for running a country, and I'm pretty sure they're online.
Morty: It just feels a little wrong -
Rick: Morty, are you gonna be a fucking American nerd or are you gonna be cool and steal the constitution with Grandpa? Here, hold this while I crack the hermetic seal.
Morty: W-Why not just use this again?
Rick: Morty! You just destroyed the map and activated the giant assassin hidden in the Statue of Liberty!
Morty: I'm sorry - W-wait, what?
Rick: It was a Trojan horse, Morty. Never trust the French. Alright, fun's fun, but now the federal government's gonna be pissed again. Way to go. And on America's birthday or whatever the fuck Thanksgiving is.
Soldier: Rick and Morty! You are under arrest and surrounded by an anti-portal shimmer! Come out with your hands up!
Jerry: Well, happy Thanksgiving to me. Can't wait to see what a "shimmer" does to my prostate.
Beth: Dad, can you just end whatever this is -
Rick: I understand you're upset Mr. President. It's honestly all Morty's fault. But in the meantime, you really want to keep your army of pointlessly camouflaged Eagle Scouts off my lawn.
The President: Don't tell me what I want you anti-American piece of shit! You terrorist!
Rick: You know, you use that word so much it's lost all meaning, Mr. P. It's like, at this point, what's a terrorist? It's a guy you don't like. Big deal.
Rick: Told you to stand down. You just lost two soldiers over here. Good men. Might be time to look at the terrorist in the mirror.
The President: You want a war?! I'll put your outer-space ass in a goddamn Phantom Zone with a bar of kryptonite soap around your neck. You're done, Sanchez! You hear me?
Rick: Oof. He's really pissed this time.
Summer: Why don't you guys just fuck and get it over with.
Rick: Okay, well thank you, Summer, but I think I've got a better option.
Beth: Dad, no.
Rick: Ehh, hands are tied, sweetie. I have to turn myself into a turkey and trick the President into giving me a Presidential turkey pardon.
Jerry: Again? How many times have you done this?
Rick: I don't know, Jerry, how many years have I lived here? Careful how you answer that.
Morty: Geez, Rick, y'know, y-you've done this a lot. Don't you think the President might see it coming this time?
Rick: He probably will, Morty. That's all part of the dance. In the past, I've inserted myself into the potential turkey pardonee population by brainwashing the presidential turkey wrangler prior to the ceremony.
The President: But this time, the turkey wrangler's been euthanized and the turkeys will be transported by armored military vehicles.
Rick: Vehicles manufactured by ghost corporations that I control.
The President: Which we have audited.
Rick: Allowing me access to...
The President: Central computer...
Rick: To track the...
The President: Real armored transports, which he can never...
Rick: Totally track and sneak aboard.
The President: And even if he does, he'll be on a truck full of turkeys and fully armed marines.
Rick: Who won't recognize me because the human eye is inherently face blind to turkeys.
The President: Fortunately, those marines won't have human eyes. They'll have turkey eyes.
Dwayne: Jesus ever-loving Christ, why don't you two just fuck and get it over with?
The President: Careful, Dwayne. You're only Vice President because I need 10% of the white vote.
Dwayne: There's a giant French assassin attacking New York, and you're using the war room to measure dicks with your alcoholic sci-fi boyfriend?
The President: Rick Sanchez is more dangerous than some steam-powered French bitch, and New York can handle its own global emergencies. General? Initiate Operation Deep Gobble.
Mary Lou: Coop, not on Thanksgiving.
Coop: It's what I trained for, Mary Lou.
Mary Lou: It ain't our fight.
Coop: Baby. That little race car driver you got bakin' in your belly. What world would you want him rearin' up in? One where some... spiky-haired Doctor Who in a lab coat can change the color of the sky? Or a world where he can fill his pickup with hot dogs and drive it to a jukebox full of our demographic's current favorite music?
Mary Lou: Obviously the latter, but --
Coop: Well, that world, Mary Lou, the one with those meals, vehicles and songs people in this 30-mile area prefer... that world needs a few good men. In a secret Pentagon lab. Turning into turkeys.
Mary Lou: You come back without feathers, Coop.
Bartender: God, I love this country.
General: These pills contain tracking chips that identify each of you as individuals. That will be important later.
Turkeyfied Marine 1 : Alright, boys, search every bird. If Sanchez is here, I wanna hear you gobblin'.
Turkeyfied Marine 2: Let me look at you, scum. get outta here, you wobbleneck.
Turkeyfied Marine 3 : Sarge, this -- this ain't like the simulation, man. I don't like it.
Turkeyfied Marine 1 : Keep it together, Martinez. Eyes are on the ground, sir. No sign of Einstein.
Mr President: Stay frosty, gentlemen. I want this pardoning pipeline airtight.
Soldier: Sir! We have hacked the garage door. We are in. Eyes on the bogey.
Mr President: Or you've got eyes on a robot.
Soldier: All due respect, sir, I know flesh when I see it!
Turkeyfied Rick: Those flesh-covered  robots should buy us some time. The pardonable turkeys should be on that truck. Ship, go stealth.
Turkeyfied Marine 1 : Rodriguez, Fincher. Get eyes on that.
Turkeyfied Rick: Huh. Turkey Marines. The President came to play. Jam those two radios.
Ship: Confirmed.
Turkeyfied Marine 1 : Fincher, Rodriguez, come in!
Turkeyfied Rick: Copy, copy, tango, all good. Just a couple of branches on the roof.
Turkeyfied Marine 1 : Don't ever turn your radio off again.
Flesh Rick/Morty: We will not/never surrender.
General: Oh yeah? Bring in the David Blaine box.
Summer: Damn, is that a David Blaine box?
Jerry: I told you we should have just gone to my parents' house.
Beth: No, you didn't.
Jerry: Well, I didn't say it out loud, but it should be well known by now that I'd always rather be there.
Flesh Rick: Oh, God, oh no!
Flesh Morty: Aw, geez, Rick!
General: Sir, we've got Rick and Morty inside the box!
The President: Then that confirms it.
General: Sir?
The President: No David Blaine box can hold Rick Sanchez. Scan the turkey truck!
Marine: Huh. That's weird. ID chips for Fincher and Rodriguez are glitching.
The President: Sanchez... I'll deal with this bastard myself.
General: Sir, don't be a cowboy. You can't get re-elected dead.
Scientist: System is calibrated, sir. That pill contains a tracking chip that will identify --
The President: I know, it'll be important later! Do it.
Rick, Morty, and Summer:  Boob World! Boob World! It's a world for you, but it's actually two. Boob World!
Summer: I gotta say, Morty, it's weird that you wanted me to come, but I'm actually "exstyched" about it. That's "excited", "stoked", and "psyched".
Morty: I didn't want you to come. Talk to Rick.
Rick: Truth is, Summer, Boob World's been at the center of a few protests every day for 30 years, so they've recently rebranded as a "boob empowerment experience", and if we bring a female, we get in for free.
Summer: So, I'm like, what, a Coke can you're taking to Six Flags?
Morty: No, 'cause once you get into Six Flags, you can throw your Coke can away.
Rick: No fuckin' way. It can't be.
Rick: Holy shit, holy shit, holy shit!
Morty: Oh, look at that.
Summer: What is it?
Morty: A Gotron Ferret.
Rick: It's not a Gotron Ferret, Morty, it's THE Blue Gotron Ferret!  Boob World is canceled.
Morty: No! Rick! No, you promised! You always do this.
Rick: Tell you what, Morty, I'll let you choose, do you really think Boob World —
Morty: Yes.
Rick: Let me finish. — is more important —
Morty: Yes!
Rick: Let me finish! — than having all five of the only five Gotron Ferrets in the universe?
Morty: Are you finished? Yes! So let's go.
Rick: Summer, help me hook the winch up to the ferret.
Summer: Sure.
Morty: What the hell? You said you were letting me choose.
Rick: Yeah, whether to break my fucking heart. You chose badly.
Morty voiceover: That's how it all began. To my sister it was just another game. But what she didn't know —
Summer voiceover: That was the moment everything changed.
Morty voiceover: Wait, what?
Summer voiceover: I had gotten my first taste of respect, and my first voiceover.
Morty voiceover: I can hear you. Can you hear me?
Summer voiceover: And I knew then and there, I wanted more of both.
Morty voiceover: Hello?
Rick: Beth, Jerry, do something fun with us! A giant monster's attacking in the Nibblenug system. Your suits are in the bathroom.
Morty: Mine smells skeleton-y.
Jerry: I have a chiropractor appointment.
Beth: What are you involving us in?
Morty: Rick's been collecting Gotron Ferrets, and now that he has all five, he can combine them into —
Rick: Morty, for Christ's sake, spoilers!
Summer: Spoilers, Morty! We don't need to sell this to anyone, there's a giant monster attacking.
Beth: In the Nibblenug system. Since when does this house care about alien lives, we don't even watch
British television.
Rick: Told you. Let's just get Gene from next door and a homeless guy.
Summer: No, hold on, fuck Gene, fuck the homeless. Your kids and their grandpa are asking you to do an activity with them, when did that stop being a parent's wettest dream?
Beth: I guess around the time our family created a giant incest baby and the government launched it into space.
Summer: Oh my god, we made a giant incest baby. Oh my god, you might be a clone. I exist because you guys failed to abort me. We get the family we get, not the one we want, and if you want to keep the one you got, get your asses into some anime spacesuits!
Jerry: Fair enough.
Beth: Okay.
Rick: Good work, Summer-camp.
Morty: Yeah, I'm "excitoked" about this.
Rick: Sure you are. Now.
Morty voiceover: Something new was forming, and I was at the bottom of it.
Summer voiceover: I let Morty have his voiceover, it's really all he had left.
Morty voiceover: Okay, can you hear me, or not?
Summer voiceover: You mean, can I, Summer, hear you? No, my voiceover can hear your voiceover.
Morty voiceover: What's the difference?
Summer voiceover: One would be telepathy, dumbass.
Beth: Now what?
Rick: Now we —
Rick, Morty, and Summer: Go Team Gotron!
Jerry: Where are we zip lining through futuristic metallic tunnels to?
Rick: Each robot ferret is on a different location on Earth. You're going to the center of a volcano.
Jerry: Thank... you?
Beth: Okay, well, this isn't not fun.
Rick: Regroup on me, I'll shoot a portal to Nibblenug.
Jerry: Did I just monorail from my kitchen to Hawaii just to regroup in outer space above my kitchen?
Rick: Uh, Summer?
Summer: It's cool, Dad, shut up.
Rick: Everybody, attack one at a time.
Beth: Is that the best way to —
Rick: Tee up something awesome? Yes. Follow me.
Rick: Guys, we did our best, but there's only one hope. Activating linkdock, intermorphs, ratify, postatrinos, maximize.
Rick: Holy shit, I can't believe this is working. Go, Go-Team! It's Gotron Time!
Jerry: Oh, my god. Hell, yes!
Summer: This is amazing!
Rick: Okay, now we can knock it around a little bit, but trust me, we're still building to something.
Beth: How do we —
Rick: Just hit buttons, we're too big to fail!
Beth: Wooah! I kicked him, that was me, right?
Morty: Uppercut!
Jerry: I can't believe I almost went to the chiropractor.
Rick: I've been waiting a long time for this. Form Luminous Energy Sword!
Rick: Got your ass, mamma-jamma!
Morty: Oh, that was fantastic!
Jerry:
Summer:  ...tits, Grandpa.
Beth: Suck tits!
Beth: I was a foot! I was a goddamn  foot!
Summer: We were like, "Bwaaah"!
Jerry: 'Member when the sword was like, "Bwaaah"?
Morty: I feel so alive!
Morty voiceover: These were the good times, when we felt like we could do anything. But anything is never quite everything, and pretty soon...
Rick: Tch, that was nothing. Nothing compared to what I can do. There are infinite universes where I still don't have all five ferrets. Those versions of me would do anything to complete their collections.
Morty: Okay, but Rick? Remember what you told me to remind you? Sometimes enough is...
Rick: Sometimes enough is enough.
Summer: Morty, what are you doing?
Morty: He gets obsessed, Summer.
Summer: When are you going to find your shame?
Morty: I have more?
Summer: Grandpa just gave everybody the high point of their lives, and before he did, every single one of you was trying to talk him out of it.
Rick: Wait, yeah. What the fuck?
Summer: Now he says we can go higher, and big surprise, it's time to drag him down again.
Beth: Well, I vote.
Summer: No voting, no debate, it's not a democracy, it's a Rick-public. You're in or you're out.
Beth: Obviously, I'm in, I never said I wasn't in.
Jerry: Me, neither. Tell us what we're doin' next!
Rick: I want to put together a cookout.
Jerry: That's it? I was honestly prepared to blow someone.
Beth: Jerry.
Jerry: I said prepared, and someone.
Morty voiceover: Rick invited five versions of our family from different universes, each with incomplete Gotrons. I didn't have anyone to talk to, since the other four Mortys had been to Boob World.
Morty 1: Did you walk on the beach?
Morty 2: The beach that's all boobs?
Morty 1: No, the beach that's all sand. Yes, the boob one!
Morty voiceover: Rick was in the garage with the heads of the five families. ...Ugh, and Summer.
Summer voiceover: In that first sit-down, it was Big Fat Rick; Ricardo Montoya; Hothead Rick, he got that name because he was prone to dramatic outbursts; and Little Ricky Wrap-it-up, who was always great at the end of a meeting. At the head of it all: me, and Grandpa Rick.
Big Fat Rick: Eh, don't get me wrong, C-137. We're happy for your good fortune, but we did not travel to your universe just to have it rubbed in our faces.
Rick: C'mon, Big Fat Rick, you know your face is too small to rub anything on.
Big Fat Rick: My face is the same size as yours.
Rick: Wow, huh. Hold on.
Rick: I'll be damned. You're so fat, it's an optical illusion. Summer, give him the pitch.
Summer: We're offering to help each of your families complete their full Gotrons.
Big Fat Rick: Gabaloccia!
Ricardo Montoya:  ...what?
Little Ricky: Opa!
Summer: In exchange for some concessions.
Ricardo Montoya: Ever since I was a little boy in the slums I have dreamed of having a complete Gotron. But concessions? I hope you mean the kind from a counter. I hope she means ice cream!
Big Fat Rick: Gabalo-guccia!
Little Ricky: Opa!
Rick: We'd like you to move your families to this universe and let me make some modifications to the Gotrons, in the interest of us all working together.
Hothead Rick: Wanna know what I think?
Rick: Sure, Hothead Rick. Just don't unexpectedly fly off the handle.
Hothead Rick: I think you guys got a lotta nerve actin' better than us! This is the family that made a giant incest baby! Had the government launch it into space! It's still floatin' around out there somewhere!
Rick: Are we ever gonna live that down?
Hothead Rick: When I get a full Gotron it won't be by kissin' your ass! It'll be by takin' what's mine! Yours!
Rick: Hey, gross! No need.
Jerry: And you were driving a ferret?
Hothead Rick: We all are, moron! Gimme the key!
Hothead Rick: You'll regret this, you level-headed fuck!
Summer:  Obviously, we predicted that might happen, which is why we have Yo-Yo Rick on standby.
Rick: Anybody got beef with Yo-Yo?
Ricardo Montoya: Eh, I'm okay. I'm okay with that.
Big Fat Rick: Good, that's good.
Rick: Some people think he's lame, but to me, he's lame in a cool way, because he owns it. Cool. That concludes business. Little Ricky Wrap-it-up?
Little Ricky: Raise 'em up, boys! Opa!
Summer voiceover: And so we helped our people find their ferrets. How they got 'em, not our problem.
Summer voiceover: Then we got down to business. Here's how it worked. If a giant monster attacked our planet, y'all got the alert.
Summer voiceover: We formed five Gotrons. And those Gotrons formed the Gogotron.
Smith family: Go, Gogotron!
Rick: I will never get sick of this!
Summer voiceover: If you were a giant monster at that time in our universe, you never had a chance!
Yo-Yo Rick: Mine needs a weapon like a yo-yo. And a yo-yo on the chest. Are you listening to me? I need you to respect this partnership!
Summer voiceover: I kept Rick removed from the ugly stuff. If you got in his way, I got you out of the way.
Summer voiceover: And that made more room to move up.
Rick: The head of my right arm.
Morty voiceover: Me, I ended up the left foot of the left foot, I guess because our robot didn't have an asshole.
Summer voiceover: Well, it had one.
Morty: Bitch! When are you going to stop breaking my balls? You win, okay?
Summer: We're not competing, Morty. And there's your answer. I could move you up if I could trust you to put family first.
Morty: How is that putting family first?
Rick: Show me all the blueprints! Show me all the blueprints!
Summer: I agree, that's an issue. Big Fat Rick, his flask stays full, or your locker gets emptied, thanks.
Morty: I know it feels good when he likes you, but that doesn't mean him liking you makes you good.
Summer: Solid babble, Morty, like a fortune cookie written by Borat.
Morty: Yeah, I'm not as smart as you, that's why I know you know what I mean.
Summer: You mean if I really loved my family, I'd give control of it back to your jealous ass? Green Ferret 4 needs a wash and we're out of detergent.
Morty: I just bought a box.
Summer: And Grandpa snorted it because you make him feel fenced in.
Rick: Sum-sum!
Summer: Get two boxes.
Summer voiceover: We evacuated one of the planets we saved and found a secret nightclub on it. A place no enemies could find us, unless you count my brother.
Morty voiceover: I didn't even have my own ferret anymore. Summer made me somethin' called an "Associate Security Chief", whatever the hell that means.
Rick: Look at this guy. Ha-ha. And look at this guy. Look at this guy over here!  Meow-meow-meow, meow, meow-meow!
Rick: Oh, there she is, my baby princess, get up here. Stop the music!
Rick: This is our queef — our queen. She saved my life, she set me free, we wouldn't have what we have without this crazy bitch. And she's got a special announcement.  Summer, tell 'em what we talked about.
Summer: Now? I don't think —
Rick: Okay, I'll do it, goddamn.
Morty voiceover: The new job did have some perks, like I got to be around the night Summer realized she was in over her head.
Rick: Yeah, okay. I've got 90 extra ferrets, which means I need 10 more, and then 4 of you get your own Gogotron, and 20% of you get a Gotron, 'cause we're all gonna have a fuckin' Gogogotron!
Summer: He's very excited. Um...
Little Ricky: Opa!
Morty: Oh, I hate my family.
Anime Guy 1: You should. Get in.
Anime Guy 1: How's it going with your grandpa's compulsiveness? Is your sister still enabling it, huh?
Morty: Who are you people?
Anime Guy 2: Let's just say, we're the rightful owners of these ferrets.
Morty: Then why were they scattered and buried across the universe?
Kendra: We mean, in a more general, cultural sense, ehh!
Anime Guy 1: What your grandpa did is called appropriation! Not cool, heugh!
Kendra: Look, Morty. We've been watching. We know you're the one that knows what's best. Work with us from the inside. Help us take over this operation. We're literally designed for it, mm-hmm?
Anime Guy 2: Nobody will know it was you, then you can get back to what's important.
Morty: Are those Boob Bucks?
Kendra: Legal tender at every kiosk and ride, huh?
Morty: I can't. Summer's treating me like shit, but, she's still my sister.
Anime Guy 1: That's really noble, Morty. If you were in our family, your loyalty would be rewarded. But you're not in our family, which means we can kill you.
Morty: Oh, yeah?
Morty voiceover: And sure enough, just when I stuck my neck out for the family, it got stomped on, anyway.
Summer: Rick!
Morty: Mom! Dad!
Hothead Rick: Hothead Rick, baby!
Hothead Rick: Aaaugh! I set myself up for that! Aaugh!
Rick: What the hell happened?
Summer: Hothead Rick.
Beth: How did he get so close to us?
Summer: Morty was supposed to be security.
Rick: Morty!
Morty: I stepped away, all right? But not to let that happen!
Jerry: Morty! We're not attractive strangers next to you on a flight to Paris traveling alone to get over a breakup, so this is no time to be coy!
Little Ricky: Opa!
Summer: Little Ricky!
Little Ricky: I'm all wrapped up, Summer. Ohh...
Morty: Guys, I know you don't trust me, but what have we become? Why are we doing this anymore?
Jerry: Because it's fun, you little rat! Now go home and play video games while we clean up these bodies, or your mother and I will hire people to break your knees!
Beth: This is $16,000 we got from the Deep State for stepping on that trailer park. It should be enough for school, lunch, and home repairs. Now I gotta turn my back on you.
Morty: No!
Summer voiceover: With Morty out of the way, things were looking up. But looks aren't everything.
New Jerry: Hi, Summer. Umm, my cockpit's not getting Wi-Fi...
Summer: Dad, you know that's not what I do around here.
New Jerry: Oh, I'm not your dad. I'm a version of him, and this is my first day here, I'm not sure what you do around here.
Summer: Then, fuck off.
New Jerry: Oh, fuck you.
Summer: Excuse me? I want your ID.
Summer: Mom. Are you Mom? Can you control your working Jerrys?
Working Beth: Sweetie, we're all a little overwhelmed.
Summer: Good point. You're not a war-time mom, why don't you find your version of Dad and take a break, take a holiday?
Summer: I don't have time to wait for your confirmation, so let's just say, if you're here in 10 minutes, I'll have you removed.
Rick: And then the Gotrons make the Gotrons make the Gotrons make the Gotrons.
Summer: Couple of snags, but I know how to speed things up.
Summer: Remember how we talked about how the best thing we could do for the family is recruit from outside the family?
Rick: Yes, way ahead of you. Summer, I want you to meet Kendra.
Rick: She's from a temp agency. She's got an entire workforce ready to go, and all of them have previous giant robot pilot experience. So, we'll be ready to go ahead of schedule.
Summer: Well, I don't know about that, but...
Rick: Well, Kendra knows, so.
Summer: So...
Morty: You're here to break my legs?
Jerry: No, we're here to talk shit about your sister, because she just fired us.
Morty: You're kidding.
Beth: Arrogant little bitch.
Jerry: Should we clip her?
Beth: No, she's not worth doing time.
Jerry: You wouldn't do time. You brought her into the world.
Beth: So I can take her out. You thought that was an actual law? It's a joke mothers say. What kind of fucked-up world have you been living in?
Jerry: Uh, one where your mother murdering you isn't a comedic premise?
Morty: Guys. There's a little adjustment period, but pretty soon you're gonna return to normal, and you're not gonna wanna kill Summer, you're not even gonna be mad at her.
Beth: Nah, fuck her. She's my enemy.
Jerry: Should we kill ourselves so we can get to hell before her and hide near the entrance?
Beth: Hmm, I like that.
Summer: Rick fired me.
Jerry: Aww, baby...
Beth: Aww, sweetie...
Summer: I'm sorry.
Beth: Are you okay, baby? What happened to us? We lost our minds.
Summer: I did it. Morty was right. I got addicted to making Grandpa happy.
Beth: It's only because your grandpa inflates the value of his happiness.
Jerry: Eh, that's a good point. I mean, look at me, I'm easy to make happy, which is why nobody gives a shit if I am.
Summer: I appreciate it, but there's something else, too. I've been really sensitive about family lately because of something I've been keeping secret.
Beth: Oh.
Jerry: Okay, who's on the Supreme Court and what state do we live in, it's been years since I thought about this.
Summer: No, I'm not pregnant, but as you guys recall, and as a lot of people keep bringing up, Morty and I did accidentally create a giant incest baby, which the government did launch into space. And, I'm not sure how to tell you this, but, it is still alive, and I have been in contact with it.
Summer: There were soldiers waiting for me outside school last month, and they took me to the Pentagon and briefed me, and from there I was shuttled to a secret base on Mars. They had captured him and wanted to see if he'd respond to me. instinctively, being his mother. And he sure did, but what they didn't expect was that I'd respond to him. I was supposed to help discipline him so they could turn him into the ultimate weapon. Instead, I trained him to love, to believe in himself, and finally, to escape.
Summer: The government doesn't want anyone to know it happened, but it's only a matter of time before the story comes out, and when it does, all we're going to have is each other, and you guys are a couple, and Rick has Morty, but I'm the odd one out, so I wanted to make sure we stuck together. But instead I drove us apart and Rick replaced me with an anime girl, so all I got is myself and my giant tortured government-trained rogue incest monster baby out there in space somewhere.
Jerry: Aww, baby. Holy fuck. And then you have to wonder, what else are they doing with our taxes?
Morty: Wait, Summer, what did you just say?
Summer: Morty, a lot.
Morty: He replaced you with an anime girl? Big eyes, plus signs for teeth, ends sentences with weird sounds that don't fit?
Summer: Yeah, and that's going to be his whole crew now, and they're about to run their first test on the Gogogotron.
Morty: Those people wanna steal the robot. They're gonna kill Rick! He's all alone, we've gotta go save him!
Summer: Right. Or, you know, fuck him.
Jerry: I'm good with that.
Beth: Yep. Fuck him.
Morty: Guys! A great leader once told me, you get the family you get.
Rick: Right. It works. Now we just gotta find a giant monster.
Kendra: My sensors have picked one up, Rick.
Rick: Okay, okay. Lock onto its location.
Kendra: Yeah, got it. Oh, it's you!
Rick: Huh?
Rick: What the hell is this?
Kendra: Thanks for making the biggest robot ever, Rick. We'll take it from here. Haha!
Rick: You little assholes!
Anime Guy 1: Ah! You son of a bitch!
Rick: No!
Rick: Deuugh!
Kendra: Lock and load, boys.
Rick: Say hello to my little me.
Rick's gun: Bang-bang-bang-bang-bang-bang-bang-bang-bang-bang!
Anime Guy 1: Deagh!
Rick's gun: Bang-bang-bang-bang-bang-bang-bang-bang-bang-bang!
Rick: Ah-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!
Rick's gun: Bang-bang-bang-bang-bang-bang-bang-bang-bang-bang!
Rick: Ha-ha-ha-ha!
Rick's gun: Bang-bang-bang-bang—
Rick: Yaugh!
Kendra: Give up, old man. The G3 is ours. And last I checked, your family wasn't coming to save you, hmm?
Incest Baby: Ga-ga, goo-goo!
Kendra: Holy mother of mercy!
Rick: My God, it's beautiful.
Summer: Yeah, family!
Kendra: Is that—
Rick: It's exactly what it looks like, yes.
Anime Guy 1: Congrats, man. I see the resemblance.
Kendra: Form the energy sword. Activate the goddamn sword!
Morty: Oh, man. The sword? Maybe we didn't think this through.
Beth: They're not actually gonna attack a space baby, are they?
Summer: I never thought I'd be the one to say this, but you need to watch more anime, Mom.
Summer: Whoa, easy now, Naruto.
Naruto: Momma go bye-bye.
Kendra: What the hell is wrong with you people? You just have an incest space monster in your back pocket, huh?
Rick: Welcome to the Smith family.
Summer: Shit. Put that down, Naruto. Your great grandpa is in there.
Morty: What do you say? One last zip line?
Rick: Heugh.  Incest space baby, nicely done.
Morty voiceover: After that, things pretty much went back to normal. Some version of it, anyway.
Morty voiceover: Rick said Gotrons were lame little kid bullshit, and we never talked about 'em again.
Summer voiceover: Except all those gigantic space bugs were runnin' loose, and there were no Gotrons left to fight them.
Morty voiceover: Yeah, millions die every day.
Summer voiceover: You wanna know what they could never kill? Family.
Jerry: Help! Help! I'm still out here! Aaagh!
Morty voiceover: Yep, nothin's more important than —
Morty: Hey! Hey, whoa-whoa-whoa!
Summer: Eugh!
Morty voiceover: And just like that, I knew our goose was as cooked as —
Rick: Voiceovarians. Eugh.
enters the bug meeting room)
Sergeant: Somatski, you're late!
Somatski: Won't happen again! Sir!
Sergeant: Bugs! Look to your left. Now look to your right. None of you are coming back. Not one, in the entire history of this program, not a single bug has returned. All right, bring it in.
Sergeant: What are we?
Bugs: Normal-sized bugs!
Sergeant: What do we do?
Bugs: Travel through an interdimensional gateway to planets and tiny people!
Sergeant: Why do we do it?
Bugs: To spread the cure for AIDS!
Palicki: Hey, Sarge, how do we know if these little people can understand us? I mean, do they even speak Buginese?
Sergeant: Funny, Palicki. That's why we say it very loud. Guys, you'll still be the same civilized bug on their side. It's not like interdimensional travel strips us of our clothes and makes us screaming monsters. Or, maybe it does, impossible to know. Now get out of here!
Somatski : My clothes... Where'd they go?
Somatski : OWW! Stop shooting me! Okay, here goes. ONE PART LEMON JUICE! FOUR BAY LEAVES! A PINCH OF SEA SALT!
Beth: No parties. There's wafer cookies in the cupboard and I left emergency numbers on the fridge.
Rick: Yeah, yeah. Wait what? Emergency numbers on the fridge; what does that even mean?
Beth: Honestly, I don't even know. There's so many movies that start with the parents leaving- it just popped right out of my mouth. Are you sure you don't wanna come with us?
Rick: Naw, go- get outta here. I've got a million things I've been putting off.
Morty: Are you sure Rick? I know- I know a cruise doesn't sound like an adventure on paper but what does? I- It's paper!
Rick: Morty, I'm trying to stay humble right now, but as soon as you guys are gone the potential for a new Pickle Rick starts skyrocketing. Peace. Bye.
: K. Bye.
Rick: Bye!
The Garage AI: IONIC COASTER DEPLOYED.
Rick: Okay, bring him out.
The Garage AI: INITIATING BEST FRIEND REJUVINATION SEQUENCE.
Rick: Excuse me? Did I pick that name?
The Garage AI: SEQUENCE WAS UNNAMED. WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE TO CALL THIS? PAUSE DETECTED. PAUSE GRAVITY CLASS: HEAVY. APPROACHING PAUSE PREGNANCY IN P-MINUS 5-
Rick: Jesus fucking Christ.
Open Ext. Japanese-style Town]
Alien woman: It’s the crowmad!
Owl 1: Give it a second. Maybe he’s taking it out to surrender.
Short alien man: He’s anti-heroic, run!
Owl 2: I don’t understand.
Owl 3: He’s only one man!
Rick: With the power of a thousand crows!
Owl 3: Good luck.
Owl 2: Crows and owls have always been at war, but why do you care? What’s the point?
Rick: Here’s two.
Morty: Haha, yeah, cool.
Rick: Morty?
Morty: H-hey man. G-good to see you. Y-you’re like, looking like, into crows. Still.
Rick: Oh, uh, two crows, you remember Morty. Morty, two crows. It’s good to see you, but give me more of a heads-up.
Morty: Oh well I-I was just in the neighborhood, i-it wasn’t like—
Rick: It’s just that the battle for crows is kinda never-ending.
Morty: Huh. Right. A little pointless then, right? That… came out wrong. S-sounded judgey.
Crow-horse: Crow-horse. Crow-horse. Crow-horse.
Two crows: Caw, caw, caw.
Morty: Okay. It looks like— it looks like they’re leading you to a thing.
Rick: Take care, Morty.
Morty: You-you too. U-uh I’m doing good, by the way. Oh, my dad was gonna eat that yogurt you left in the fridge, but I-I told him—
Kaze ni nori tobitachi
Kuroi tsubasa hiroge
Itsumademo issho ni tatakau
Soranohate made
Kimi to
Rick: Ahem. I’m lookin’ for Crowscare. The scarecrow. The evil scarecrow. Come on, whoever gives him up first lives.
Rick: Fine, I can kill an extra asshole. Helps me get my steps in.
Morty: Rick!
Rick: Morty?
Pussifer: Wood?!
Pussifer: Gahhh!
Rick: Uh, Morty. Why are you now like forty?
Morty: Th-that’s how long it’s been, Rick.
Rick: Oh. Um, I guess we can have a drink together then.
Morty: Do you have a rum and coke?
Waiter: What are you, twenty?
Morty: Oh-ho-ho. Bless your heart.
Rick: Time be going by, don’t she?
Morty: That’s your reaction to finding out you wasted your entire life?
Rick: I feel okay.
Morty: Well-well, what about me?
Rick: Woah. Excuse us boys, you don’t wanna be here for this.
Two crows: Caw.
Morty: I thought if I gave you enough space, you’d outgrow this phase.
Waiter: Here’s your drink, poser.
Morty: Dad got sick, you know. Stage four. Heh, you woulda loved it. Summer’s a nurse. Well, pretty much a nurse. Sh-she married a junkie. Rick, come home. While we still got a little time.
Rick: Morty, what we had wasn’t healthy.
Morty: And this is? Y-y-you had a thousand adventures with these crows. When are you gonna kill their Big Bad?
Rick: First off, the will-they kill-they is everything to my guys. And second, fuck you for trying to undermine my happiness.
Morty: This may be the last time you lay eyes on me!
Rick: I hope that’s not true, Morty. Because you look like sh-urrp-shit, and this is not how I wanna remember you.
Crowscare: Now that I have his two crows, nothing will stop me from eliminating Crow Rick!
Two crows: Caw, caw, caw.
Crowscare: Don’t defend him to me, I don’t even get what you see in him.
Two crows: Caw, caw.
Crowscare: You’re right, we should be enjoying the time we have together.
Crowscare: Crow Rick!
Two crows: Caw.
Crowscare: Oh, I know what this must look like but—
Rick: Looks like my arch-nemesis Crowscare and my sidekicks planning adventures together.
Crowscare: You are hardly the victim here. I was adventuring with these two crows before you ever came along.
Two crows: Caw, caw, caw.
Rick: What do you mean, ‘using me as a rebound’?
Two crows: Caw.
Rick: You feel like I was using you as a rebound too? Well shit, this lost all meaning. Guess it could’ve been worse. At least ‘adventuring’ was just a metaphor for romantic partnership so it’s not a real breakup.
Crowscare: Speak for yourself. We immensely enjoy each other’s bodies.
Rick: What?! Eugh, no!
Crowscare: Sounds like the man’s asking for proof! Let’s show him, fellas!
Two crows: Caw, caw, caw.
Crowscare: Ah, aah.
Rick: I-I asked for zero proof! Zero proof!
Rick: I’m giving you free will. Yah!
Crow-horse: Submit to Crow-horse!
Rick: Whoops.
Morty: R-rick?
Rick: Wubba lubba dub dub! I’m back, pal!
Jerry: Morty, who’s at the door?
Rick: Wait a minute, I thought you died gruesomely. W-what the hell’s going on here?
Morty: See, um th-the thing is, uh—
Beth: Can you please make Morty fourteen again, dad? This is ridiculous.
Morty: Okay, look, I-I may have used an aging serum to kind of emotionally blackmail you a little.
Rick: I kinda figured and I totally get it, Morty. I-I’m done with the two crows, like they were super clingy and I’m ready to make this work.
Morty: Let’s just hit the reset button.
Beth: Well no, honey, not a reset, okay? Tell your grandpa that you’re worthy of his respect and you wanna be treated differently from now on.
Morty: I refuse to do that, I’m desperate to get back together.
Jerry: Just like his old man.
Rick: Don’t worry honey, that’s just Morty’s middle age talking. He’ll be less codependent once we get more of his life in front of him again.
Summer: Uh, I’d like him to stay forty so he can keep buying my friends molly. I’d rather throw my vote away than use it to support a flawed system.
Morty: Can we make our first adventure fixing this? I-I keep thinking about lawn care.
Rick: Okay buddy, who sold you this shitty aging serum? What did he look like?
Morty: Just like you. I-I got it from the Citadel.
Rick: Hot damn! Hitting the ground running with a Citadel episode. See you later, masturbators.
Andy: Hi! I’m the Citadel’s new mascot, Andy! Because this place wouldn’t be home without Ricks aaand-ey Mortys!
Morty: Dumb.
Rick: Oof, what happened to this place?
Morty: There’s a Morty president now.
Rick: Ah, that’s cute. They rebuilt, and made it nicer.
Morty: They made it Glendale.
Rick: Goddamn you are cantankerous.
Morty: Even pooping hurts now.
Rick: Yeah, well, this place is gonna fix you right up.
Employee Morty: Okay, so… we’ve got a standard Morty that’s been aged to forty.
Rick: Can you reverse it?
Employee Morty: Well if you look at it like a bone, what we can do is break his age in two places, remove the middle and graft its ends back together.
Morty: Th-th-that sounds really violent.
Rick: It’s not a literal bone, Morty.
Morty: Oh, Okay.
Employee Morty: Brace yourself, the process does also break every bone in your body.
Morty: Wait, ahhhh! Ooh, ow!
Toddler Morty 1: I like crayons.
Toddler Morty 2: Girls are gross.
Morty: I-I-I think I feel like myself again.
Rick: Eh, you look a little weird. Your skin’s all pink like a baby mouse. Is that normal?
Employee Morty: Probably. Uh, sign here for storage or disposal of the twenty-six years we removed.
Rick: Wait, what? I ain’t payin’ to store twenty-six years.
Employee Morty: Well, then you’re taking it with you.
Twenty-Six Year Old Morty: I’m almost ready to sell out.
Rick: Alright, what’s disposal cost?
Twenty-Six Year Old Morty: S-something unfair’s happening!
Deformed Morty: There’s no escape! No escape!
Twenty-Six Year Old Morty: Let me help you, this is not a good look!
Rick: Oh boy.
Morty: Hey, they shot me!
Police Morty: You are seriously hurting the Citadel experience!
Deformed Morty: Listen to me!
Police Morty: Drop the gun!
Deformed Morty: Death is coming for us all, and the Citadel is a weapon of mass destruc—
Rick: Woof. You’re about to get suspended with pay. Come on, Morty. Let’s get out of here before this gets political.
Twenty-Six Year Old Morty: U-uh. Was I influential?
Morty: Yeah, y-you were influential. You had like seven— seven blogs.
Twenty-Six Year Old Morty: Tight. Uh.
Rick: Ugh. Too late.
Secret Service Rick: C-137. President Morty requests you join him for dinner.
Morty: Woah! S-seriously?
Rick: You know I destroyed this place?
Secret Service Rick: You’ve been pardoned for that, sir.
Morty: Rick, let’s have dinner with the Morty president.
Rick: Morty, the idea was to get back to simple adventures. The Citadel runs on canon.
Morty: Okay. I guess things really are going right back to how they were.
Rick: Fine, I could eat. But the second he reveals he’s evil, we’re gone.
Morty: I don’t know. Tastes pretty good.
Rick: Okay, let me know if you start feeling poisony. Good to have you back, buddy.
President Morty: Sorry I’m late. Never really ends around here.
Rick: Look at this Morty. They really did make a you the president.
President Morty: And I hate ‘em every day for it. But wow, Rick C-137. Now that’s a guy to move your schedule around for. Not-not here to blow the place up again, I hope. Ha ha.
Rick: Ha. Not unless you try to keep me here.
President Morty: Geez, wouldn’t dream of it. But it’s amazing you dropped by because I was eventually gonna hunt you down.
Rick: There’s the reveal. Let’s dance.
President Morty: Ha, geez.
Morty: Come on, man. The guy got elected president. By Ricks and Mortys. He’s being really nice.
Rick: All politicians are nice.
President Morty: He’s a hot bag of peanuts, isn’t he?
Morty: We’ve been through a lot, a-and he does not like—
Rick: Serialized drama.
President Morty: Right, no drama. Keep it episodic. Ricks never look back. Waste of a legend in his case. You know, he practically built this place.
Morty: Wait, what?
Rick: And now you're running it squeaky clean, right? That’s why you got deformed Mortys comin’ up through the sewer lines talking about ‘hope’ and ‘change’.
President Morty: Fair enough.
Morty: Good clap-back, Rick. What’s the deal with that, Mr. P?
President Morty: I got a little project going on, acquired some hands-on labor. It would require less if you were willing to tell me how one might bring down the Central Finite Curve.
Rick: Alright, time to go Morty.
Morty: I wanna know what he’s talking about.
President Morty: Yeah, you’ve come all this way. Can you give me ten more seconds?
Rick: Literally ten? Because now it would be six.
President Morty: Oh, I’m fine with that. Make it two… one. Like I said, would’ve been a big help for you to tell me, but I should have everything I need from you now. Let me just make sure…
Rick: You can’t scan an entire brain over appetizers.
President Morty: Oh, most of yours got scanned a looong time ago.
President Morty: You probably don’t remember.
Rick Stan Lee: Check out season one, episode nine, Rickheads. Excel-uurp-cior!
Rick: Evil Rick.
Morty: We kicked his ass.
President Morty: Evil Rick. I love it. Smartest man in the universe, with an ego so big you could just grab it like a joystick.
President Morty: Looks complete. I was afraid I’d have to kill every Rick on the Citadel to get what I needed.
Morty: You asshole! I vouched for you! He only came here because I asked him to. I’m sorry, Rick.
Rick: That apology and a screwdriver in my hand would be worth one screwdriver.
President Morty: Pfft, you sell-out Mortys kill me. I’d hate you more than the Ricks you worship if there was any point. But you can’t help it; you were bred for it. Wanna see?
President Morty: You already know rogue Ricks used Mortys to hide themselves from the Citadel. But you might not know it worked so well that the Citadel became its own Morty market. And I’m sure you don’t know how far they’ve gone to help supply meet demand. Sure, Ricks could scour infinity for naturally-occurring grandsons, but why bother? So much work. Such an admission of need. There are infinite versions of our grandfather, Morty. He’s an infinite smear of one shitty old man, and he’s attached to us infinitely through his weakness and our forgiveness. This is why we’re with him. This is why we’re alive.
Morty: What the fuck?! Rick, say this isn’t true!
Rick: It isn’t the whole truth.
Morty: Liar!
President Morty: Liar.
Rick: It’s complicated!
Morty: I’m not busy!
Rick: Okay, Morty, remember when all I said I needed was your apology and a screwdriver in my hand? Well, I forgot I literally have a screwdriver in my hand. I mean, duh-doi, I’m basically Inspector Gadget.
President Morty: Uh oh.
President Morty: It’s okay, he’s free to go. He’s the Rickest Rick. We’ll never see him again.
Rick: Morty, when you came here for that serum did you refill this gun?
Morty: Yeah.
Morty: Holy shit!
Rick: I only know one man that ever hacked my Portal Gun, and it turned out it was evil you.
President Morty: Yay. He’s all caught up.
Rick: Wait! Hold it, hold it!
Morty: Wh-who’s that?
Rick: Time for Big Boy. Duck!
Morty: Does he like it?
Rick: He’s a metaphor for capitalism, Morty. What do you think?
Rick: Yoink!
President Morty: You can’t outrun your past, Rick.
President Morty: Tch, did you think my forcefield would be down the second time?
Rick: I was expressing disapproval of your dialogue!
President Morty: Ahaha. Disapprove all you want. Tonight, the quality of dialogue stops mattering. Tonight, I do that thing I wanna do, with the Curve thing.
Loudspeaker system: Nobody leave, everybody stay. Nobody leave, everybody stay. Nobody leave, everybody stay.
Rick D716: In uncertain times like these, I think it’s important for me to say: Eat shit, fuck you! The drug companies paid for me to say every word, I have millions of dollars, and I don’t care— oh god oh fuck no, oh—
'Rick D716-B: And I’d just like to say that prescription drugs are great and you should buy them now.
Morty: What’s happening, Rick?
Rick: He hacked the entire city’s portal supply. Come on, there still might be one way out of here. Out the bottom.
Morty: What do you think he needed from your brain?
Rick: I assume schematics for the Citadel’s Dimensional Drive. If he’s gonna use it to blow the Curve, we do not wanna be here.
Morty: What is the Central Finite Curve?
Rick: Q and A after our survival. Hopefully we can snag some untainted fluid at the source and get the fuck outta here.
Rick: Or not.
Rick: Wow. I thought my capitalism metaphor was on the nose.
Morty: So did you help build the Citadel? Did you just lie to me about everything?
Rick: Can’t you just sneak through the cave base? We turned a new leaf, Morty. We’re back to simple adventures.
Morty: It’s not a new leaf until you tell me everything.
Rick: Morty, we really don’t have time for this. The whole place is gonna blow.
Morty: No, I-I don’t trust you. I-I-I don’t wanna do this anymore if I’m not gonna get straight answers from you.
Rick: Goddammit. Here’s my fucking downloaded brain, Morty. You wanna jump the shark? You wanna know my stupid crybaby backstory? Knock yourself out.
Rick: No-not now!
Morty: Woah. Dead wife?
Rick: Yes. Now everyone can shut up about it.
Morty: Wow, Rick. I feel a lot better having seen all that.
President Morty: Of course that’s the case. In their minds, they’re the underdog.
President Morty: And that’s how they justify this.
(President Morty presses a button on a remote. Images of Ricks from across the Finite Curve materialize around them. Rick laughing at an injured Morty. Rick giving Morty a wedgie. Rick with Morty in a chokehold.
The view changes and more scenes are visible. In one orb, there’s an image of Rick holding a bloody knife. In another, Rick is passed out drunk on a bed. Yet another shows Rick with flames behind him.)
Rick: Morty, I’m not responsible for every fucked up Rick out there.
President Morty: They literally all say that. They all have that excuse; it’s part of their system. None of them have to be responsible, they're all victims of themselves. ‘Oh, it’s so hard to be a genius. Couldn’t you just die?’
Morty: Well what are you doin’ about it?
President Morty: Jack shit. I’m leaving. Do you know what the Central Finite Curve is? They built a wall around infinity, separated all the infinite universes from all the infinite universes where he’s the smartest man in the universe. Every version of us has spent every version of all of our lives in one infinite crib, built around an infinite fucking baby.
President Morty: And I’m leaving it. That’s what makes me ‘evil’, being sick of him. If you’ve ever been sick of him, you’ve been evil too.
Morty: Rick, did you really leave the crows for me? Or did you come back because they dumped you?
President Morty: There you go, kid. Now you’re Evil Morty too. Sooner or later, we all are, on this side of the Curve.
Orange Afro Rick: Don’t worry, Morty. We still got a way out they never thought of. Operation Phoenix.
Orange Afro Morty: Doesn’t that still mean, like, death?
Orange Afro Rick: Sure, but the joke’s on them cuz we just found a backdoor to getting off this rock.
Female computer voice: Rerouted. Rerouted. Rerouted.
Female computer voice: Rerouted. Rerouted. Rerouted.
Morty: Oh my fucking god!
Rick: Come on Morty, we gotta go!
Morty: Woah!
President Morty: You can come if you want.
President Morty: Don’t blame me if you don’t.
Rick: Ugh. From where I sit, Morty, that’s the best deal on the table. I-I don’t have a real plan.
Rick: Thanks, pal. I-I’m glad you ignored my advice.
President Morty: It’s just as well. I lied. That second seat’s a toilet.
Morty: Oh, super dick move. But weirdly kind of cool to admit it.
Rick: Geez, you guys really are bred for forgiveness. Let’s go.
(Rick and Morty climb out of a manhole. Around them, deformed Mortys are crawling out from the sewers. A wave of portal fluid washes towards them.
They all get on a train and head for a different part of the Citadel: Mortyburg. Rick, Morty, and all the other Mortys on the train disembark.)
Rick: Say goodbye to the Citadel, fellas.
(President Morty straps himself into the personal spaceship. The robotic arm holding the ship upright loads it into the exit chute. A pneumatic arm engages and shoots the spaceship out the bottom of the Citadel.
President Morty approaches the rift in the Central Finite Curve. Behind him, explosions erupt throughout the Dimensional Drive chamber.)
(Rick is still struggling to engage the boosters. Then he sees the sign: 'BOOSTER CONTROL MUST OPERATE WITH PARTNER'.
Rick offers his hand to Morty, pulling him towards the control panel against the G forces pulling them backwards towards the rift in space. They activate the boosters together.
Rick pulls his portal gun out of his pocket. There’s no more fluid left in it. They both turn and watch the Citadel explode.)
(President Morty watches in awe as he breaks through the barrier. Finally, his thrusters turn off and he is floating in the space between universes. He opens the front of the spaceship and presses a button on one of his wrist pads. A holographic representation of the Central Finite Curve is projected into the air in front of him, then bursts like miniature fireworks.
President Morty takes out a golden Portal Gun and creates a golden colored portal. He steps inside, and the portal closes behind him.)
Mr. Poopybutthole: Woo-wee. Evil Morty. That was quite a scheme. Makes me wonder if there’s an evil me out there. But I guess, sometimes I look at my life, and I may not even need ‘im. Cuz, well, guess I made a pretty big mess of things myself. Ooo eee.
Mr. Poopybutthole: I never got my job at the university back. Remember that? Rick made me do karate. It was kinda funny, but I guess things went downhill from there.
Mr. Poopybutthole: Started isolating myself from Amy. Used to tell her everything I was feeling.
Mr. Poopybutthole: But then I guess I stopped.
Mr. Poopybutthole: Cuz I wanted her to love who she thought I was, not who I felt myself becoming.
Mr. Poopybutthole: Ever think about how horrified the people we love would be if they found out who we truly are? So we just dig ourselves deeper, into our lies every day , ultimately only hurting the people who were brave enough to love us.
Mr. Poopybutthole: Wish I didn’t do that.
Mr. Poopybutthole: Wish I was brave enough to love them back. I don’t know, maybe you should try it.
Mr. Poopybutthole: We don’t have as much time as we think. Ooo eee.
Rick: Ugh, guess this is how it ends. I thought I was better than this. Dramatic voiceover while stranded in space? I-I guess when you're dying, the first thing to go is your creativity. Citadel's gone, and-and the saucer we escaped in is out of power.
Alternate Morty: Oh man, I'm so scared in here …
Rick: The extra Mortys went feral—
Alternate Morty: Gahhhh!
Rick:  —eh, some problems solve themselves. Been drinking a lot—Morty, I told you to write this down! I-I don't have a helmet like that Avengers guy did!—been drinking a lot of my piss. Portal gun's still broken—
Morty:  Guess that was all part of Evil Morty's plan.
Rick: Evil Morty? Can we stop flattering this guy? His plan was to monologue and fuck off! He basically threw a tantrum to announce he was quitting Twitter!
Morty: Nobody quits Twitter.  Hey, remember, like a second ago, when you pretended to not know who Iron Man was? Who was that for?
Rick: Shh, shh, shush, Morty. This is how we go. Bear it with grace.  Spinal cord, Robitussin as a base, then surprise me.
Morty: Mom!
Rick: Beth, maybe!
Rick: Is she trying to say something?  We-we can't hear you! How dumb are … Beth, you're in a vacuum, sound travels on air!  Why am I yelling?
Space Beth:  IS THIS A PRIVATE PARTY? OR CAN ANYONE JOIN?
Morty:  Wow. Great.
Rick:  Yeah, that's … Wow. Really worth it. That was not worth it! It's corny!  You! Corn! Dying of starvation here!
Space Beth: WHEN I DECIDED TO SAY IT, I DIDN'T KNOW IT WOULD BE …
Morty: Oh my God, stop explaining!  Stop explaining!
Space Beth: … SUBJECTED TO THIS SCRUTINY.
Rick: Are you finished?  She's not finished.
Space Beth: MAYBE I WON'T RESCUE YOU.
Rick: Oh, real mature.
Morty: Oh, nice.
Rick: Real classy.
Rick:  It was a good line, honey.
Space Beth:  I didn't need it to be. I don't care what you think.
Home Beth:  Oh my god, she found you. Here, eat. Eat.
Morty: Oh hell yes!
Rick: Hold on, buddy. Our systems could go into shock from solid food.  Digestibot, convert to nutrient mass.
Rick: I'm just gonna risk it.
Home Beth: Since when do you guys get stranded?  Thank you, by the way.
Space Beth: Almost left them out there.
Rick: Portal travel's broken.  Mmm. Are these heirloom tomatoes? Digestibot, try these.
Digestibot: Yum. Yum.
Home Beth: So you can't hop realities anymore? Does that mean you'll finally have to wash your robe?
Rick: Good point. They need to reboot the Portal Index immediately.
Rick: Basically just a hard reset on the fluid. Hold tight, the Earth's gonna shake a bit.
Space Beth: Uhh …
Home Beth: Oh!
Rick:  Oh, shit.
Morty:  Wait, what? What's happening?
before pulling out a device showing what is presumed to be a schematic of the local group of universes.]
Rick: Instead of resetting portal travel, I may have reset portal travellers. Too late to apologise.
Jerry: Rick, why am I pulsing green? And don't say you don't know, because you're pulsing green.
Morty:  Rick, are we about to die?
Rick:  No, we're about to vanish from this reality.
Jerry: That's totally dying!
Rick: No it isn't! It's everyone from this reality returning to their reality of origin.
Morty: Back to our original universes!
Rick: I explained it fine, Morty. You're spoonfeeding spoons. Where is Summer?
Summer: Oh nice, you guys are back.  Whoa.
Rick:  Summer, three of us are one-way blind-hopping. You gotta help us get back. There's a protocol for this in your chores server, filename 'booger-aids'.
Summer: Every file is 'booger-aids'!
Rick: I—I hate naming things! Just search for words like 'one-way blind-hop, reset map beacon'.
Jerry:  Why do I have a reality of origin?
Rick: There's no time to explain, Jerry. Counting on you, Summer! One-way blind-hop beacon protocol.  Here we gooooo!
Jerry: So there was time to explain.
Rick: Don't waste extra precious seconds with your pettiness, Jerry!  Summer, let's run down—
Summer: One-way blind-hop reset beacon, 'booger-aids'.
Rick:  Cool.  Wow.
Jerry:  There was so much time to explain!
Rick: Yes, fine! Hindsight is 20-20. Who has ever taken this long to vanish?
Jerry: How did I end up not in my own universe?  Oh, my god. The Jerryboree.
Rick and Morty:  Oh, the Jerryboree!
Rick:  Deep cut.
Home Beth: Wait, but where's our real dad and our real Morty?
Summer:  Buried in the backyard.
Home Beth: That's what the possums are after.
and gives her a glowing coin. The twin Beths climb down the ladder to meet her.]
Space Beth: Dad's got you in the family business too, huh?
Summer: Yeah, Morty's an easy mark, but Rick pays me in things like …
Summer:  Wolverine claws.
Space Beth: Well, looks like you got this. See you guys in another—two years?
Summer: Or you could stick around for this one? Looks like it involves Grandpa's grotty citadel.  We could, you know, break things, loot stuff.
Space Beth:  I should … probably get back to … saving the galaxy.
Summer: Please?
Space Beth:  Guess I could loot some stuff. Fine. Yeah. Okay. Let's make it quick.
Home Beth:  Awesome, I've never been. Let's do this. Okay. Adventure family. Woo!
Summer: Uhh … Okay!
Rick: Fuck.
Rick Prime:  Excuse me? Bro, Ricks don't pass on this.
Voice: Rick, is that you?
Rick:  Yeah, Diane.
Diane: You've been gone so long.  Did you find our daughter's killer?
Rick: Not yet, sorry. Still looking.
Diane: You'll find him. You always do everything you set your mind to, except keep your family alive. But that was hardly your fault.
Rick:  Mute.
Diane:  If I could be muted, I wouldn't be too-too-too good at haunting you, would I, you dirty bear?
Rick: Yeah. I forgot I wanted to be haunted.
Diane: I guess you predicted you might. That's where haunting comes in handy, huh?
Rick: Very good point, sugar.
Morty: Rick?
Morty: Hello? Original family? Sorry about last time. Rick, he was in space prison. We couldn't just—hello?
Morty: Aaaah!
Morty:  Aw, geez.
Morty: Ah!
Morty:  Oh!
[He flips open one as a shadowy figure approaches him. Morty notices, and in alarm, throws a spear at the figure and hits its shoulder. The figure gasps in pain, and, as he moves into the light, reveals himself to be a bearded Jerry.
Original Jerry: Agh! Ah, fuck! Dammit Morty, there's no doctors anymore.
Morty:  Dad!?
Home Beth: Figures it's underwhelming, the one time I visit.
Summer: Yeah, sorry, usually, there's cowboy Rick and Mortys and stuff.
Home Beth: Looks like they could use a couple repairmen Ricks and Mortys, right?
Summer: Oh, tight! Little scavenger dudes. If they shoot at us, I'm allowed to …
Summer:  do this.  Shit, yeah.
Summer: Space Mom, get in on this!
Summer: Cool Mom.
Space Beth: Let's keep it moving. I don't have all day.
Home Beth: I got it! I got it.  Sorry!  Sorry!  I got it. Sorry!
Home Beth:  I was … gonna do it …
Summer:  Ugh, terrestrials, am I right?
Diane: I kept up the search in your absence. You want a new list of potential locations?
Rick: You're always just one room away, huh?
Diane: Yeah. Remember, if you thought you could see or touch me, it might give you a level of  com-com-comfort.
Rick: Right, can't have that. Come on, Summer.
Diane: Who's Summer? Should I be jealous? I hope  Summer knows what happens to the people you love!
Old Man: Hey, Rick!
Rick: Hey, Mr Goldmanbachmajorian. S-still alive, huh? What's up?
Mr. GBM: I was hoping you could help me make sense of a note I found this morning? It's written by someone claiming to be me. They say my mind is 'held captive in a time loop, trapped in the day of a traumatic event by the agony of a formidable intelligence, but also that my captor forgot about aging, that my body spoils and yearns for death while my soul remains stuck in place, caught like a fly in amber.'
Rick:  Right. I used to drink drink.  Uhh … no clue pal.
Mr. GBM: That's okay. I found other notes in the trash just like it. Poor weirdo. I pity them. Wish they could let go and move on.
Rick: Sounds healthy.
Mr. GBM: Sure would be!
Mr. GBM.]
Mr. GBM: Aaah, sweet death!
Diane: Was that symbolic? Are you letting go? I understand, baby. I forgive you!
Rick:  You don't get to say that, you're not her! You're a thing I built to torture myself.  This whole fucking timeline is cursed. I gotta get out of here.
Diane: Because you want to move on.
Rick: Because I don't! And  I have to. I came back on accident. The guy I'm looking for, he's... he's not findable, Diane.  I live with a version of Beth now.
Diane: Sounds like a version of nice.
Rick: We have grandkids. That's who Summer is. She's going to get me out of here.  She reminds me of you.
Diane: Oh really? Is she dead too?
Rick:  Bye, Diane.
Diane: You're not honestly going to fly into that rift without coordinates, are you? Don't give up on us, Rick. I don't make the rules. Haunters gonna haunt.
Diane: Baby, are you killing yourself?
Rick: I'm more embracing the win-win of risking my life.
Morty: Where's Mom and Summer?
Original Jerry: Oh, they're gone. Sorry, Morty.
Morty: Gone gone?
Original Jerry: We spent a long time in that ice. A gentle mutant licked us out, but Beth got sick and Summer... didn't thaw right.
Original Jerry: With no one left to blame, I finally had to deal with myself. Buried my grief at Barnes & Noble. "Four Agreements", "Eat Pray Love", Frank Miller's "The Dark Knight Returns". Learned to accept things for what they are.
Original Jerry: In a few of these, the whole brain is still intact. Makes you wonder if some people were still in there,  just trapped in the horror. Anyway, it's awesome protein.
Morty: I'm so sorry, Dad. But my real, original Dad beat the apocalypse. I-I-I guess we all underestimated you. Hey, w-what's that game we always try to play as a family, y—the one we never finished?
Original Jerry: Downbeat.
Morty: Yes! Let's play Downbeat. I-I bet I can find it! We can finish now!
Original Jerry: Yeah, you should totally do that.
Morty: Hey, yeah, cool, I-I got it! We'll play Downbeat and we'll-we'll camp here tonight and then rebuild the house.  You know, we got food, fresh water, and we've got family.
Morty: The fuck?
Original Jerry:  Morty. I wrote this note in advance in case you're wondering how I left so fast. My plan is to wait for you to turn your back, them I'm going to grab all your shit and split. Depending on how long you were out of the room, you'll probably be thinking I can't be that far away and you'll want to foll—
Original Jerry:  Morty, wrote this fast 'cause had to set trap. Thought you'd have cooler shit. See other note. Bye.
Morty: Motherfu—
Morty:  Whoa, whoa! Slow down! Slow down!
Morty: Not cool! Oh!
Morty: What the hell, Dad?
Original Jerry: Don't take it personal, Morty. That's one of the Four Agreements. I don't remember the other three, but I know Commissioner Gordon was cool with Batman moving on.
Morty: Batman doesn't abandon people!
Original Jerry: You abandoned us.
Morty: I deserve that. But, you know, it... it improved you.
Original Jerry: Oh, am I cool enough for you now? Well, that was easy, it only cost me fucking everything!
Morty: Whoa, hey, I-I—
Original Jerry: You came back and talked about us like we weren't people, Morty! Then you bailed and left us to freeze!
Morty: I-I was apologizing for that earlier—
Original Jerry: Your mom and sister died, Morty!  And I moved on. From caring. And that is the best deal you will ever get. So take it.
Morty: Please don't go! I-if Rick comes back, we ca-we can find you a new reality. A new Mom, a new Summer, a... job!
Original Jerry: Oh, you don't get it, kid. Except for this conversation, my life is perfect. Rick was always right.  Everyone needs to let go.
Morty: Aww, you came back. I guess we really did form a bond.
Morty: Ow! Hey, stop it! Get away from me!  No! Help!
Summer: Alright, pin dropped, Grandpa!
Summer: Come and get us.
Rick: Come on, come on, come on!
Diane: Baby? Something to keep in mind—if you were pulled home by whatever happened, it's likely our target was, as well. It's also likely he's having as much trouble leaving as you are.
Rick: He's trapped.
Summer: Grandpa!
Rick: Oh, fuck yes!
Summer: Grandpa—Grandpa?
Rick: Summer! Gold star, always believed in you. N-now the hard part.
Summer: Hard part?
Rick: Way worse things than me can see that beacon, too. Hunker down and protect it while I grab Morty. Rick out! Try to survive!
Summer: Oh, shit.  Domestic Mom should hide, maybe?
Home Beth: "Domestic Mom?"
Summer: I mean, she's the cool space one.
Space Beth: Look, I'm not looking to get caught in whatever this is. You guys can both hide maybe, hash it out.
Home Beth: Oh, quit talking down. I'm you with the patience to do laundry.
Summer: Mom, stop being jealous of our bond!
Home Beth: She ran from our choices. I have to parent them.
Space Beth: It's not like I didn't care. That's what the clone was for. Aah!
Summer: Moms!
Rick: Morty!
Morty: Rick? I knew it! I knew you wouldn't leave me!
Morty: Ow! The fuck?
Rick: Morty, did you see another Rick here? Nondescript haircut, sci-fi jacket?  Eh, of course you didn't see him, you'd be dead. Or you'd be a bomb. Do you feel bomby? Nah, you woulda blown up by now.
Morty: Wasn't the Rick here dead? Th-th-that's why you pick places, right?
Rick: Uh, well, your Rick, uh, yeah, not dead, more like, not around. When I met you, I was sorta hoping he might turn up one day— You son of a bitch! I got you!
Morty: W-w-where are we going?
Rick: To kill your grandpa, little buddy.
Morty: Wait, what?
Morty: I don't understand. My original Rick killed your family? And you were just waiting for him to come back?
Rick: Seems like you understand fine, Morty. That was A+ re-piping.  We're here.
Rick: This guy, Morty, he hates being found but loves building elaborate shit. Like-like-like playing a ton of Minecraft but all on a private server.
Morty: Am I in a fucking K-hole right now? What is going on?
Rick Prime:  Whoa-ho-ho, you found me!
Rick Prime: I shoot the first monitor, too. Listen, I'm not here. Or am I?
Rick Prime: There's the clone you found! Or maybe it's me, all naked! Just a lil' Keyser Soze. I mean, why would I admit it's not?
Rick Prime: Oh-hoho, yeah! Look at him! Look at him go! Look at him dance! O-or me. Again, it might be me, like a "Saw" thing. I'm very sneaky. Here's a bunch of killbots to deal with while ya wrestle with that.
Rick Prime: Obviously, I don't know who I'm talking to here.
Rick Prime: It's all prerecorded.
Rick Prime: But if you got this far, you probably think you're real special. Tell you what...
Rick Prime: Oop! There he goes! Maybe that actually was me! If you follow him down there, we can do a big fight. Fifty percent chance I'm not lying.
Space Beth:  We're in trouble, asshole! I shouldn't have to beg.
Morty: Wait, my moms are in trouble?
Rick: Those versions of them are.
Morty: W-we gotta save them! Rick, this is an obvious trap. If you go down there he's just gonna kill you.
Rick: Good!
Morty: What?
Rick: Now what?
Morty: If you don't care if you die, why do you care if I die?
Rick: Knock it off! Get out of here! You did this last season! You're like a suicide bomber!
Morty: Takes one to know one.
Rick: Yeah, well, you get it from him, not me.
Morty: I don't know him. You're my grandpa, Rick. Rick and Morty. A hundred years.
Rick Prime: This place totally might go up, by the way. Here's a bunch of countdowns. One of them's probably accurate.
Space Beth: Ah, fucking stupid 5th-dimensional stomach juices.
Home Beth: Sorry for the sitcom fight, and maybe getting us digested.
Space Beth: You've got incredible timing.
Home Beth: Oh, don't be a bitch. I'm parenting. Makes sense you don't recognize it. You've been out of practice for a while.
Space Beth: Good! I'm glad that they have you! I don't want to be "Space Mom."
Home Beth: You've made that clear. Just don't let Summer mistake your rejection of her for good taste.
Space Beth: I'm not trying to. It's all her!
Summer: Jesus! It'd be cool if you were around more. I don't wanna get married. I'm 17. My affection is the wind. Don't try to compete for it.  I could hear every word of that through the helmets. Thank fuck I only had to kill most of them.
Home Beth: Jesus, that ship really has sailed.
Space Beast: And now... we feast!
Rick: This emergency was oversold to me.
Summer: Grandpa!
Home Beth & Space Beth: Morty!
Morty: Moms!
Morty: Wait, i-if they had to wear helmets—
Rick: I do childproofing stuff while you're asleep.
Morty: Why don't you childproof Dad?
Home Beth: Ah, great reminder.
Rick: Wait!
Home Beth: Time to get Jerry.
Rick: Ugh.
Alternate Beth: Maybe I wouldn't be so uptight if I wasn't married to an unemployed receptacle of human fear!
Alternate Summer: Get a job, Dad, it's been a decade.
Alternate Rick: Whoof. Pretty brutal, Jer. I-I know a good alligator park if you wanna kill yourself.
Alternate Morty: I got expelled today.
Alternate Beth: What the hell, Morty?!
Alternate Rick: Oh, no, you got expelled. Whoa, what a horrible thing.
Alternate Beth: You are so fucking dumb!
Alternate Rick: Too bad, Morty.
Home Beth: Hi, hon.
Rick: Whoof, some real Season 2 vibes in there, you know what I'm sayin'?
Jerry:  You know, never thought I'd say this, but I think I'm glad we spent that time divorced.
Jerry: Eh, one second.
Alternate Rick: I'll build a fucking swing set in the backyard!
Alternate Beth: What the hell Morty?
Jerry: You know, I may technically be from here. But I'm a goddamn interdimensional traveller now, and all of you——can kiss my sci-fi ass.
Home Beth: It gets me every time.
Morty: Wow, what an amazing joke I just told. A-and also, what an adventure. You know, I guess it doesn't matter where we're from if we're together, huh? Good-good final moral thing.
Summer: This is everyone's original dimension now.
Rick: Great wrap-ups, kids.
Season 2 Jerry: Ugh, you're back.
Rick: Oh shit, Season 2 Jerry!
Season 2 Jerry: Look, before you bust my balls, can someone help with the shower? It's colder than Beth on her anniversary. Also...  Look what I found in Rick's room!
Mr. Frundles: Mmm, I'm Mr. Frundles!
Season 2 Jerry: I don't care how cute he is, we agreed! No Boogens in the house!
Rick: Wait, Season 2 Jerry! Don't!
Mr. Frundles: Nyaah!
Morty: Oh!
Summer: Mr. Frundles!
Rick: Everybody in the car.
Mr. Frundles : Mmm, I'm Mr. Frundles!
Jerry: Wait, but I thought he was Mr. Frundles.
Rick: Everybody in the car! Now!
Mr. Frundles after the Mr. Frundles on Season 2 Jerry's leg bites it, but after our family left house. The Mr. Frundles on Season 2 Jerry's leg bites Season 2 Jerry's face, causing him to turn into Mr. Frundles. The infection spreads faster and faster.]
Many species of Mr. Frundles:  Mmm, I'm Mr. Frundles!
Beth: What the fuck Dad?! Why would you bring that thing into our house?
Rick: It was cute! Fuck we gotta find a new timeline now! You know how hard that shit is without portals? We gotta do the thing with the Rift and the beacon again! The whole fucking episode all over again! Car, fabricate some vomit bags.
Space Beth: Can't we just go back and fix it?
Mr. Frundles : Mmm, I'm Mr. Frundles!
has suffered a gruesome death. The entire living room is destroyed.]
Summer: I can't believe portal travel's broken.
Rick: I'll get to it when I get to it.
Morty: Lift with your knees, Mom.
Home Beth: How many times have you done this?
Jerry:  Oh, God.
Home Beth: And you swear they die of natural causes?
Rick: Mm-hmm, yep.
Space Beth: The exact same as our old timeline? Even my stuff?
Rick: Bit of a rush job, actually, so they do say "parmesan" weird.
Morty: How do they say—
Rick: Par-mees-ian.
Summer: Boo.
Jerry: Jesus Christ.
Rick: I could've left you guys! You think the concept of family matters to me? I'm not even your Rick!
Summer: Uh-huh.
Jerry: "I'm Denial Rick!"
Home Beth: See you inside, Dad.
Home Beth: Sorry I was such a Dance Mom about Summer. She's your daughter too.
Space Beth: No, boundaries are good. But, uh, speaking of, maybe I've put up too many. Is it okay if I come around sometimes?
Home Beth: That could be nice.
Space Beth: That's a cute outfit.
Home Beth: The one we always wear?
Rick:  Yes, Morty?
Morty: You promise I'm not, you know, bait? T-to make that Rick come back?
Rick: What? M-Morty, for you to be bait, the guy'd have to value something. He truly does not give a shit.  He's the real deal.
Morty: Parmeee...san...
Rick: Par-meee-sian. Par-meee-sian.
Morty: Par...par-meee-sian.
Rick: Par-me-sian.
Morty: Gross.
Rick: Yeah.
Morty: I hate it.
Original Jerry: Hello? Morty? That one big Rat?
Rick Prime: Whoa, this is a development.
Original Jerry: Gah!
Rick Prime: Shh. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, lil guy. Easy. You're a Jerry, right? Never got too close to the concept. Boy, you have really arc'd out.
Original Jerry: Were you putting on pants?
Rick Prime: What? Oh, yeah, no, I was naked to fuck with a guy. Speaking of, did you talk to me, or a little kid around here?
Original Jerry: Maybe. Why? Because if you hate them, too... I could be down for a little team up.
Rick Prime: Eh, I really don't "team up" anymore. Managing people, such a headache. Aah!
Original Jerry: Fatality. Jerry wins!
Rick Prime: Oh goddamn dude! Badass!
Original Jerry: Why are you here?
Rick Prime: Buddy, I have been asking myself that exact same question.