Ella: How's your blog going?
Watson:Yeah, good. Very good.
Ella: You haven't written a word, have you?
Watson:You just wrote "Still has trust issues".
Ella: And you read my writing upside down. D'you see what I mean?
Ella: John, you're a soldier, and it's gonna take you a while to adjust to civilian life, and writing a blog about everything that happens to you will honestly help you.
Watson:Nothing happens to me.
Sir Jeffrey: What d'you mean, there's no ruddy car?
Helen: He went to Waterloo. I'm sorry. Get a cab.
Sir Jeffrey: I never get cabs.
Helen: I love you.
Sir Jeffrey: When?
Helen: Get a cab!
Margaret Patterson: My husband... was a happy man who lived life to the full. He loved his family and his work – and that he should have taken his own life in this way is a mystery and a shock to all who knew him.
Jimmy: Yes, yes, taxi, yes!
Jimmy: I'll be back in two minutes, mate.
Gary: What?
Jimmy: I'm just going home; get my mum's umbrella.
Gary: You can share mine!
Jimmy: Two minutes, all right?
Aide 1: Is she still dancing?
Aide 2: Yeah, if you can call it that.
Aide 1: Did you get the car keys off her?
Aide 2: Got 'em out of her bag.
Aide 1: Where is she?
Donovan: The body of Beth Davenport, Junior Minister for Transport, was found late last night on a building site in Greater London. Preliminary investigations suggest that this was su1c1de. We can confirm that this apparent su1c1de closely resembles those of Sir Jeffrey Patterson and James Phillimore. In the light of this, these incidents are now being treated as linked. The investigation is ongoing but Detective Inspector Lestrade will take questions now.
Reporter 1: Detective Inspector, how can suicides be linked?
Lestrade: Well, they all took the same poison. Um, they were all found in places they had no reason to be. None of them had shown any prior indication of...
Reporter 1: But you can't have serial suicides.
Lestrade: Well, apparently you can.
Reporter 2: these three people: there's nothing that links them?
Lestrade: There's no link been found yet, but we're looking for it. There has to be one.
Donovan: If you've all got texts, please ignore them.
Reporter 1: Just says, "Wrong".
Donovan: Yeah, well, just ignore that. Okay, if there are no more questions for Detective Inspector Lestrade, I'm going to bring this session to an end.
Reporter 2: But if they're suicides, what are you investigating?
Lestrade: As I say, these... these suicides are clearly linked. Um, it's an... it's an unusual situation. We've got our best people investigating...
Reporter 1: Says, "Wrong" again.
Donovan: One more question.
Reporter 3: Is there any chance that these are m*rder, and if they are, is this the work of a serial k*ller?
Lestrade: I... I know that you like writing about these, but these do appear to be suicides. We know the difference. The, um, the poison was clearly self-administered.
Reporter 3: Yes, but if they are m*rder, how do people keep themselves safe?
Lestrade: Well, don't commit su1c1de.
Donovan:  "Daily Mail."
Lestrade: Obviously this is a frightening time for people, but all anyone has to do is exercise reasonable precautions. We are all as safe as we want to be.
Lestrade: Thank you.
Donovan: You've got to stop him doing that. He's making us look like idiots.
Lestrade: Well, if you can tell me how he does it, I'll stop him.
Mike: John! John Watson!
Mike: Stamford. Mike Stamford. We were at Bart's together.
Watson:Yes, sorry, yes, Mike. Hello, hi.
Mike: Yeah, I know. I got fat!
Watson:No.
Mike: I heard you were abroad somewhere, getting sh*t at. What happened?
Watson:I got sh*t.
Watson:Are you still at Bart's, then?
Mike: Teaching now. Bright young things, like we used to be. God, I hate them!
Mike: What about you? Just staying in town 'til you get yourself sorted?
Watson:I can't afford London on an Army pension.
Mike: Ah, and you couldn't bear to be anywhere else. That's not the John Watson I know.
Watson:Yeah, I'm not the John Watson...
Mike: Couldn't Harry help?
Watson:Yeah, like that's gonna happen!
Mike: I dunno – get a flatshare or something?
Watson:Come on – who'd want me for a flatmate?
Watson:What?
Mike: Well, you're the second person to say that to me today.
Watson:Who was the first?
Sherlock: How fresh?
Molly: Just in. Sixty-seven, natural causes. He used to work here. I knew him. He was nice.
Sherlock: Fine. We'll start with the riding crop.
Molly: So, bad day, was it?
Sherlock: I need to know what bruises form in the next twenty minutes. A man's alibi depends on it. Text me.
Molly: Listen, I was wondering: maybe later, when you're finished...
Sherlock: Are you wearing lipstick? You weren't wearing lipstick before.
Molly: I, er, I refreshed it a bit.
Sherlock: Sorry, you were saying?
Molly: I was wondering if you'd like to have coffee.
Sherlock: Black, two sugars, please. I'll be upstairs.
Molly: ..Okay.
Watson:Well, bit different from my day.
Mike: You've no idea!
Sherlock: Mike, can I borrow your phone? There's no signal on mine.
Mike: And what's wrong with the landline?
Sherlock: I prefer to text.
Mike: Sorry. It's in my coat.
Watson:Er, here. Use mine.
Sherlock: Oh. Thank you.
Mike: It's an old friend of mine, John Watson.
Sherlock: Afghanistan or Iraq?
Watson:Sorry?
Sherlock: Which was it – Afghanistan or Iraq?
Watson:Afghanistan. Sorry, how did you know...?
Sherlock: Ah, Molly, coffee. Thank you.
Sherlock: What happened to the lipstick?
Molly: It wasn't working for me.
Sherlock: Really? I thought it was a big improvement. Your mouth's too small now.
Molly: ..Okay.
Sherlock: How do you feel about the violin?
Watson:I'm sorry, what?
Sherlock: I play the violin when I'm thinking. Sometimes I don't talk for days on end. Would that bother you? Potential flatmates should know the worst about each other.
Watson:Oh, you... you told him about me?
Mike: Not a word.
Watson:Then who said anything about flatmates?
Sherlock: I did. Told Mike this morning that I must be a difficult man to find a flatmate for. Now here he is just after lunch with an old friend, clearly just home from military service in Afghanistan. Wasn't that difficult a leap.
Watson:How did you know about Afghanistan?
Sherlock: Got my eye on a nice little place in central London. Together we ought to be able to afford it.
Sherlock: We'll meet there tomorrow evening; seven o'clock. Sorry –
gotta dash. I think I left my riding crop in the mortuary.
Watson:Is that it?
Sherlock: Is that what?
Watson:We've only just met and we're gonna go and look at a flat?
Sherlock: Problem?
Watson:We don't know a thing about each other; I don't know where we're meeting; I don't even know your name.
Sherlock: I know you're an Army doctor and you've been invalided home from Afghanistan. I know you've got a brother who's worried about you but you won't go to him for help because you don't approve of him –
possibly because he's an alcoholic; more likely because he recently walked out on his wife. And I know that your therapist thinks your limp's psychosomatic – quite correctly, I'm afraid.
Sherlock: That's enough to be going on with, don't you think?
Sherlock: The name's Sherlock Holmes and the address is 221B Baker Street.
Sherlock: Afternoon.
Mike: Yeah. He's always like that.
Sherlock: Hello.
Sherlock: Thank you.
Watson:Ah, Mr. Holmes.
Sherlock: Sherlock, please.
Watson:Well, this is a prime spot. Must be expensive.
Sherlock: Oh, Mrs Hudson, the landlady, she's giving me a special deal. Owes me a favour. A few years back, her husband got himself sentenced to death in Florida. I was able to help out.
Watson:Sorry, you stopped her husband being ex*cuted?
Sherlock: Oh no. I ensured it.
Mrs Hudson: Sherlock, hello.
Sherlock: Mrs Hudson, Doctor John Watson.
Mrs Hudson: Hello.
Watson:How do?
Mrs Hudson: Come in.
Watson:Thank you.
Sherlock: Shall we?
Mrs Hudson: Yeah.
Watson:Well, this could be very nice. Very nice indeed.
Sherlock: Yes. Yes, I think so. My thoughts precisely.
Sherlock: So I went straight ahead and moved in.
Watson:Soon as we get all this rubbish cleaned out... Oh.
Watson:So this is all...
Sherlock: Well, obviously I can, um, straighten things up a bit.
Watson:That's a skull.
Sherlock: Friend of mine. When I say "friend"...
Mrs Hudson: What do you think, then, Doctor Watson? There's another bedroom upstairs if you'll be needing two bedrooms.
Watson:Of course we'll be needing two.
Mrs Hudson: Oh, don't worry, there's all sorts round here. Mrs Turner next door's got married ones.
Mrs Hudson: Oh... Sherlock! The mess you've made.
Watson:I looked you up on the Internet last night.
Sherlock: Anything interesting?
Watson:Found your website, The Science of Deduction.
Sherlock: What did you think?
Watson:You said you could identify a software designer by his tie and an airline pilot by his left thumb.
Sherlock: Yes; and I can read your military career in your face and your leg, and your brother's drinking habits in your mobile phone.
Watson:How?
Mrs Hudson: What about these suicides then, Sherlock? I thought that'd be right up your street. Three exactly the same.
Sherlock: Four.
Sherlock: There's been a fourth. And there's something different this time.
Mrs Hudson: A fourth?
Sherlock: Where?
Lestrade: Brixton, Lauriston Gardens.
Sherlock: What's new about this one? You wouldn't have come to get me if there wasn't something different.
Lestrade: You know how they never leave notes?
Sherlock: Yeah.
Lestrade: This one did. Will you come?
Sherlock: Who's on forensics?
Lestrade: It's Anderson.
Sherlock: Anderson won't work with me.
Lestrade: Well, he won't be your assistant.
Sherlock: I need an assistant.
Lestrade: Will you come?
Sherlock: Not in a police car. I'll be right behind.
Lestrade: Thank you.
Sherlock: Brilliant! Yes! Ah, four serial suicides, and now a note! Oh, it's Christmas!
Sherlock: Mrs Hudson, I'll be late. Might need some food.
Mrs Hudson: I'm your landlady, dear, not your housekeeper.
Sherlock: Something cold will do. John, have a cup of tea, make yourself at home. Don't wait up!
Mrs Hudson: Look at him, dashing about! My husband was just the same.
Mrs Hudson: But you're more the sitting-down type, I can tell.
Mrs Hudson: I'll make you that cuppa. You rest your leg.
Watson:Damn my leg!
Watson:Sorry, I'm so sorry. It's just sometimes this bloody thing...
Mrs Hudson: I understand, dear; I've got a hip.
Watson:Cup of tea'd be lovely, thank you.
Mrs Hudson: Just this once, dear. I'm not your housekeeper.
Watson:Couple of biscuits too, if you've got 'em.
Mrs Hudson: Not your housekeeper!
Sherlock: You're a doctor. In fact you're an Army doctor.
Watson:Yes.
Sherlock: Any good?
Watson:Very good.
Sherlock: Seen a lot of injuries, then; violent deaths.
Watson:Mmm, yes.
Sherlock: Bit of trouble too, I bet.
Watson:Of course, yes. Enough for a lifetime. Far too much.
Sherlock: Wanna see some more?
Watson:Oh God, yes.
Watson:Sorry, Mrs Hudson, I'll skip the tea. Off out.
Mrs Hudson: Both of you?
Sherlock: Impossible suicides? Four of them? There's no point sitting at home when there's finally something fun going on!
Mrs Hudson: Look at you, all happy. It's not decent.
Sherlock: Who cares about decent? The game, Mrs Hudson, is on!
Sherlock: Taxi!
Sherlock: Okay, you've got questions.
Watson:Yeah, where are we going?
Sherlock: Crime scene. Next?
Watson:Who are you? What do you do?
Sherlock: What do you think?
Watson:I'd say private detective...
Sherlock: But?
Watson:..but the police don't go to private detectives.
Sherlock: I'm a consulting detective. Only one in the world. I invented the job.
Watson:What does that mean?
Sherlock: It means when the police are out of their depth, which is always, they consult me.
Watson:The police don't consult amateurs.
Sherlock: When I met you for the first time yesterday, I said, "Afghanistan or Iraq?" You looked surprised.
Watson:Yes, how did you know?
Sherlock: I didn't know, I saw. Your haircut, the way you hold yourself says military. But your conversation as you entered the room...
Watson:Bit different from my day.
Sherlock: ..said trained at Bart's, so Army doctor – obvious. Your face is tanned but no tan above the wrists. You've been abroad, but not sunbathing. Your limp's really bad when you walk but you don't ask for a chair when you stand, like you've forgotten about it, so it's at least partly psychosomatic. That says the original circumstances of the injury were traumatic. Wounded in action, then. Wounded in action, suntan –
Afghanistan or Iraq.
Watson:You said I had a therapist.
Sherlock: You've got a psychosomatic limp – of course you've got a therapist. Then there's your brother.
Watson:Hmm?
Sherlock: Your phone. It's expensive, e-mail enabled, MP3 player, but you're looking for a flatshare – you wouldn't waste money on this. It's a gift, then.
Sherlock: Scratches. Not one, many over time. It's been in the same pocket as keys and coins. The man sitting next to me wouldn't treat his one luxury item like this, so it's had a previous owner. Next bit's easy. You know it already.
Watson:The engraving.
Sherlock: Harry Watson. Clearly a family member who's given you his old phone. Not your father, this is a young man's gadget. Could be a cousin, but you're a w*r hero who can't find a place to live. Unlikely you've got an extended family, certainly not one you're close to, so brother it is. Now, Clara. Who's Clara? Three kisses says it's a romantic attachment. The expense of the phone says wife, not girlfriend. She must have given it to him recently, this model's only six months old. Marriage in trouble then – six months on he's just given it away. If she'd left him, he would have kept it. People do. Sentiment. But no, he wanted rid of it. He left her. He gave the phone to you: that says he wants you to stay in touch. You're looking for cheap accommodation, but you're not going to your brother for help. That says you've got problems with him. Maybe you liked his wife; maybe you don't like his drinking.
Watson:How can you possibly know about the drinking?
Sherlock: sh*t in the dark. Good one, though. Power connection: tiny little scuff marks around the edge of it. Every night he goes to plug it in to charge but his hands are shaking. You never see those marks on a sober man's phone. Never see a drunk's without them.
Sherlock: There you go, you see, you were right.
Watson:I was right? Right about what?
Sherlock: The police don't consult amateurs.
Watson:That... was amazing.
Sherlock: Do you think so?
Watson:Of course it was. It was extraordinary; it was quite extraordinary.
Sherlock: That's not what people normally say.
Watson:What do people normally say?
Sherlock: Piss off!
Sherlock: Did I get anything wrong?
Watson:Harry and me don't get on, never have. Clara and Harry split up three months ago and they're getting a divorce; and Harry is a drinker.
Sherlock: Spot on, then. I didn't expect to be right about everything.
Watson:And Harry's short for Harriet.
Sherlock: Harry's your sister.
Watson:Look, what exactly am I supposed to be doing here?
Sherlock: Sister!
Watson:No, seriously, what am I doing here?
Sherlock: There's always something.
Donovan: Hello, freak.
Sherlock: I'm here to see Detective Inspector Lestrade.
Donovan: Why?
Sherlock: I was invited.
Donovan: Why?
Sherlock: I think he wants me to take a look.
Donovan: Well, you know what I think, don't you?
Sherlock: Always, Sally. I even know you didn't make it home last night.
Donovan: I don't... Er, who's this?
Sherlock: Colleague of mine, Doctor Watson.
Sherlock: Doctor Watson, Sergeant Sally Donovan. Old friend.
Donovan: A colleague? How do you get a colleague?!
Donovan: What, did he follow you home?
Watson:Would it be better if I just waited and...
Sherlock: No.
Donovan: Freak's here. Bringing him in.
Sherlock: Ah, Anderson. Here we are again.
Anderson: It's a crime scene. I don't want it contaminated. Are we clear on that?
Sherlock: Quite clear. And is your wife away for long?
Anderson: Oh, don't pretend you worked that out. Somebody told you that.
Sherlock: Your deodorant told me that.
Anderson: My deodorant?
Sherlock: It's for men.
Anderson: Well, of course it's for men! I'm wearing it!
Sherlock: So's Sergeant Donovan.
Sherlock: Ooh... and I think it just vaporised. May I go in?
Anderson: Now look: whatever you're trying to imply...
Sherlock: I'm not implying anything.
Sherlock: I'm sure Sally came round for a nice little chat, and just happened to stay over.
Sherlock: And I assume she scrubbed your floors, going by the state of her knees.
Sherlock: You need to wear one of these.
Lestrade: Who's this?
Sherlock: He's with me.
Lestrade: But who is he?
Sherlock: I said he's with me.
Watson:Aren't you gonna put one on?
Sherlock: So where are we?
Lestrade: Upstairs.
Lestrade: I can give you two minutes.
Sherlock: May need longer.
Lestrade: Her name's Jennifer Wilson according to her credit cards. We're running them now for contact details. Hasn't been here long. Some kids found her.
Sherlock: Shut up.
Lestrade: I didn't say anything.
Sherlock: You were thinking. It's annoying.
Lestrade: Got anything?
Sherlock: Not much.
Anderson: She's German. Rache, it's German for revenge. She could be trying to tell us something...
Sherlock: Yes, thank you for your input.
Lestrade: So she's German?
Sherlock: Of course she's not. She's from out of town, though. Intended to stay in London for one night... before returning home to Cardiff.
Sherlock: So far, so obvious.
Watson:Sorry – obvious?
Lestrade: What about the message, though?
Sherlock: Doctor Watson, what do you think?
Watson:Of the message?
Sherlock: Of the body. You're a medical man.
Lestrade: Wait, no, we have a whole team right outside.
Sherlock: They won't work with me.
Lestrade: I'm breaking every rule letting you in here.
Sherlock: Yes... because you need me.
Lestrade: Yes, I do. God help me.
Sherlock: Doctor Watson.
Watson:Hm?
Lestrade: Oh, do as he says. Help yourself.
Lestrade: Anderson, keep everyone out for a couple of minutes.
Sherlock: Well?
Watson:What am I doing here?
Sherlock: Helping me make a point.
Watson:I'm supposed to be helping you pay the rent.
Sherlock: Yeah, well, this is more fun.
Watson:Fun? There's a woman lying d*ad.
Sherlock: Perfectly sound analysis, but I was hoping you'd go deeper.
Watson:Yeah... Asphyxiation, probably. Passed out, choked on her own vomit. Can't smell any alcohol on her. It could have been a seizure; possibly drugs.
Sherlock: You know what it was. You've read the papers.
Watson:What, she's one of the suicides? The fourth...?
Lestrade: Sherlock. two minutes, I said. I need anything you've got.
Sherlock: Victim is in her late thirties. Professional person, going by her clothes; I'm guessing something in the media, going by the frankly alarming shade of pink. Travelled from Cardiff today, intending to stay in London for one night. It's obvious from the size of her suitcase.
Lestrade: Suitcase?
Sherlock: Suitcase, yes. She's been married at least ten years, but not happily. She's had a string of lovers but none of them knew she was married.
Lestrade: Oh, for God's sake, if you're just making this up...
Sherlock: Her wedding ring. Ten years old at least. The rest of her jewellery has been regularly cleaned, but not her wedding ring. State of her marriage right there. The inside of the ring is shinier than the outside – that means it's regularly removed. The only polishing it gets is when she works it off her finger.
It's not for work, look at her nails. She doesn't work with her hands, so what or rather who does she remove her rings for? Clearly not one lover; she'd never sustain the fiction of being single over that amount of time, so more likely a string of them. Simple.
Watson:That's brilliant.
Watson:Sorry.
Lestrade: Cardiff?
Sherlock: It's obvious, isn't it?
Watson:It's not obvious to me.
Sherlock: Dear God, what is it like in your funny little brains? It must be so boring.
Sherlock: Her coat - it's slightly damp. She's been in heavy rain in the last few hours. No rain anywhere in London in that time. Under her coat collar is damp, too. She's turned it up against the wind. She's got an umbrella in her left-hand pocket but it's dry and unused. Not just wind, strong wind – too strong to use her umbrella. We know from her suitcase that she was intending to stay overnight, so she must have come a decent distance but she can't have travelled more than two or three hours because her coat still hasn't dried. So, where has there been heavy rain and strong wind within the radius of that travel time? Cardiff.
Watson:That's fantastic!
Sherlock: D'you know you do that out loud?
Watson:Sorry. I'll shut up.
Sherlock: No, it's... fine.
Lestrade: Why d'you keep saying suitcase?
Sherlock: Yes, where is it? She must have had a phone or an organiser. Find out who Rachel is.
Lestrade: She was writing 'Rachel'?
Sherlock: No, she was leaving an angry note in German! Of course she was writing Rachel; no other word it can be. Question is: why did she wait until she was dying to write it?
Lestrade: How d'you know she had a suitcase?
Sherlock: Back of the right leg: tiny splash marks on the heel and calf, not present on the left. She was dragging a wheeled suitcase behind her with her right hand. Don't get that splash pattern any other way. Smallish case, going by the spread. Case that size, woman this clothes-conscious - could only be an overnight bag, so we know she was staying one night.
Sherlock: Now, where is it? What have you done with it?
Lestrade: There wasn't a case.
Sherlock: Say that again.
Lestrade: There wasn't a case. There was never any suitcase.
Sherlock: Suitcase! Did anyone find a suitcase? Was there a suitcase in this house?
Lestrade: Sherlock, there was no case!
Sherlock: But they take the poison themselves; they chew, swallow the pills themselves. There are clear signs, even you lot couldn't miss them.
Lestrade: Right, yeah, thanks! And...?
Sherlock: It's m*rder, all of them. I don't know how, but they're not suicides, they're killings – serial killings.
Sherlock: We've got ourselves a serial k*ller. I love those. There's always something to look forward to.
Lestrade: Why are you saying that?
Sherlock: Her case! Come on, where is her case? Did she eat it?! Someone else was here, and they took her case. So the k*ller must have driven her here; forgot the case was in the car.
Watson:She could have checked into a hotel, left her case there.
Sherlock: No, she never got to the hotel.
Look at her hair. She colour-coordinates her lipstick and her shoes.
She'd never have left any hotel with her hair still looking...
Sherlock: Oh.
Sherlock: Oh!
Watson:Sherlock?
Lestrade: What is it, what?
Sherlock: Serial K*llers are always hard. You have to wait for them to make a mistake.
Lestrade: We can't just wait!
Sherlock: Oh, we're done waiting!
Sherlock: Look at her, really look! Houston, we have a mistake. Get on to Cardiff: find out who Jennifer Wilson's family and friends were. Find Rachel!
Lestrade: Of course, yeah – but what mistake?!
Sherlock: PINK!
Anderson: Let's get on with it.
Donovan: He's gone.
Watson:Who, Sherlock Holmes?
Donovan: Yeah, he just took off. He does that.
Watson:Is he coming back?
Donovan: Didn't look like it.
Watson:Right.
Watson:Right... Yes.
Watson:Sorry, where am I?
Donovan: Brixton.
Watson:Right. Er, d'you know where I could get a cab? It's just, er... well... my leg.
Donovan: Er... try the main road.
Watson:Thanks.
Donovan: But you're not his friend.
Donovan: He doesn't have friends. So who are you?
Watson:I'm... I'm nobody. I just met him.
Donovan: Okay, bit of advice then: stay away from that guy.
Watson:Why?
Donovan: You know why he's here? He's not paid or anything. He likes it.
He gets off on it. The weirder the crime, the more he gets off. And you know what? One day just showing up won't be enough. One day we'll be standing round a body and Sherlock Holmes'll be the one that put it there.
Watson:Why would he do that?
Donovan: Because he's a psychopath. And psychopaths get bored.
Lestrade: Donovan!
Donovan: Coming.
Donovan: Stay away from Sherlock Holmes.
Watson:Taxi! Taxi...
Watson:Hello?
Man's voice: There is a security camera on the building to your left. Do you see it?
Watson:Who's this? Who's speaking?
Man's voice: Do you see the camera, Doctor Watson?
Watson:Yeah, I see it.
Man's voice: Watch.
Man's voice: There is another camera on the building opposite you. Do you see it?
Watson:Mmm-hmm.
Man's voice: And finally, at the top of the building on your right.
Watson:How are you doing this?
Man's voice: Get into the car, Doctor Watson.
Man's voice: I would make some sort of thr*at, but I'm sure your situation is quite clear to you.
Watson:Hello.
Woman: Hi.
Watson:What's your name, then?
Woman: Er... Anthea.
Watson:Is that your real name?
Woman: No.
Watson:I'm John.
Not-Anthea: Yes. I know.
Watson:Any point in asking where I'm going?
Not-Anthea: None at all...
Not-Anthea: ..John.
Watson:Okay.
Man: Have a seat, John.
Watson:You know, I've got a phone.
Watson:I mean, very clever and all that, but er... you could just phone me. On my phone.
Man: When one is avoiding the attention of Sherlock Holmes, one learns to be discreet, hence this place.
Man: The leg must be hurting you. Sit down.
Watson:I don't wanna sit down.
Man: You don't seem very afraid.
Watson:You don't seem very frightening.
Man:  Ah, yes. The bravery of the soldier. Bravery is by far the kindest word for stupidity, don't you think?
Man: What is your connection to Sherlock Holmes?
Watson:I don't have one. I barely know him. I met him...
Watson:..yesterday.
Man: Mmm, and since yesterday you've moved in with him and now you're solving crimes together. Might we expect a happy announcement by the end of the week?
Watson:Who are you?
Man: An interested party.
Watson:Interested in Sherlock? Why? I'm guessing you're not friends.
Man: You've met him. How many 'friends' do you imagine he has? I am the closest thing to a friend that Sherlock Holmes is capable of having.
Watson:And what's that?
Man: An enemy.
Watson:An enemy?
Man: In his mind, certainly. If you were to ask him, he'd probably say his arch-enemy. He does love to be dramatic.
Watson:Well, thank God you're above all that!
Man: I hope I'm not distracting you.
Watson:Not distracting me at all.
Man: Do you plan to continue your association with Sherlock Holmes?
Watson:I could be wrong... but I think that's none of your business.
Man: It could be.
Watson:It really couldn't.
Man: If you do move into, um... two hundred and twenty-one B Baker Street, I'd be happy to pay you a meaningful sum of money on a regular basis to ease your way.
Watson:Why?
Man: Because you're not a wealthy man.
Watson:In exchange for what?
Man: Information. Nothing indiscreet. Nothing you'd feel... uncomfortable with. Just tell me what he's up to.
Watson:Why?
Man: I worry about him. Constantly.
Watson:That's nice of you.
Man: But I would prefer for various reasons that my concern go unmentioned. We have what you might call a... difficult relationship.
Watson:No.
Man: But I haven't mentioned a figure.
Watson:Don't bother.
Man: You're very loyal, very quickly.
Watson:No, I'm not. I'm just not interested.
Man: "Trust issues," it says here.
Watson:What's that?
Man: Could it be that you've decided to trust Sherlock Holmes of all people?
Watson:Who says I trust him?
Man: You don't seem the kind to make friends easily.
Watson:Are we done?
Man: You tell me.
Man: I imagine people have already warned you to stay away from him, but I can see from your left hand that's not going to happen.
Watson:My what?
Man: Show me.
Watson:Don't...
Man: Remarkable.
Watson:What is?
Man: Most people blunder round this city, and all they see are streets and shops and cars. When you walk with Sherlock Holmes, you see the b*ttlefield. You've seen it already, haven't you?
Watson:What's wrong with my hand?
Man: You have an intermittent tremor in your left hand.
Man: Your therapist thinks it's post-traumatic stress disorder. She thinks you're haunted by memories of your military service.
Watson:Who the hell are you? How do you know that?
Man: f*re her. She's got it the wrong way round. You're under stress right now and your hand is perfectly steady.
Man: You're not haunted by the w*r, Doctor Watson... you miss it.
Man: Welcome back.
Man: Time to choose a side, Doctor Watson.
Not-Anthea: I'm to take you home.
Not-Anthea: Address?
Watson:Er, Baker Street. Two two one B Baker Street. But I need to stop off somewhere first.
Watson:Listen, your boss – any chance you could not tell him this is where I went?
Not-Anthea: Sure.
Watson:You've told him already, haven't you?
Not-Anthea: Yeah.
Watson:Hey, um... do you ever get any free time?
Not-Anthea:  Oh, yeah. Lots.
Not-Anthea: Bye.
Watson:Okay.
Watson: What are you doing?
Sherlock: Nicotine patch. Helps me think.
Sherlock: Impossible to sustain a smoking habit in London these days. Bad news for brain work.
Watson:It's good news for breathing.
Sherlock: Oh, breathing. Breathing's boring.
Watson:Is that three patches?
Sherlock: It's a three-patch problem.
Watson:Well...?
Watson:You asked me to come. I'm assuming it's important.
Sherlock: Oh, yeah, of course. Can I borrow your phone?
Watson:My phone?
Sherlock: Don't wanna use mine. Always a chance that the number will be recognised. It's on the website.
Watson:Mrs Hudson's got a phone.
Sherlock: Yeah, she's downstairs. I tried shouting but she didn't hear.
Watson:I was the other side of London.
Sherlock: There was no hurry.
Watson:Here.
Watson:So what's this about – the case?
Sherlock: Her case.
Watson:Her case?
Sherlock: Her suitcase, yes, obviously. The m*rder took her suitcase. First big mistake.
Watson:Okay, he took her case. So?
Sherlock: It's no use, there's no other way.
We'll have to risk it.
Sherlock: On my desk there's a number. I want you to send a text.
Watson:You brought me here... to send a text.
Sherlock: Text, yes. The number on my desk.
Sherlock: What's wrong?
Watson:Just met a friend of yours.
Sherlock: A friend?
Watson:An enemy.
Sherlock: Oh. Which one?
Watson:Your arch-enemy, according to him. Do people have arch-enemies?
Sherlock: Did he offer you money to spy on me?
Watson:Yes.
Sherlock: Did you take it?
Watson:No.
Sherlock: Pity. We could have split the fee. Think it through next time.
Watson:Who is he?
Sherlock: The most dangerous man you've ever met, and not my problem right now. On my desk, the number.
Watson:Jennifer Wilson. That was... Hang on. Wasn't that the d*ad woman?
Sherlock: Yes. That's not important. Just enter the number.
Sherlock: Are you doing it?
Watson:Yes.
Sherlock: Have you done it?
Watson:Ye... hang on!
Sherlock: These words exactly: "What happened at Lauriston Gardens? I must have blacked out."
Sherlock: "Twenty-two Northumberland Street. Please come."
Watson:You blacked out?
Sherlock: What? No... No!
Sherlock: Type and send it. Quickly.
Sherlock: Have you sent it?
Watson:What's the address?
Sherlock: Twenty-two Northumberland Street. Hurry up!
Watson:That's... That's the pink lady's case. That's Jennifer Wilson's case.
Sherlock: Yes, obviously.
Sherlock: Oh, perhaps I should mention: I didn't k*ll her.
Watson:I never said you did.
Sherlock: Why not? Given the text I just had you send and the fact I that have her case, it's a perfectly logical assumption.
Watson:Do people usually assume you're the m*rder?
Sherlock: Now and then, yes.
Watson:Okay...
Watson:How did you get this?
Sherlock: By looking.
Watson:Where?
Sherlock: The k*ller must have driven her to Lauriston Gardens. He could only keep her case by accident if it was in the car. Nobody could be seen with this case without drawing attention – particularly a man, which is statistically more likely. So obviously he'd feel compelled to get rid of it the moment he noticed he still had it. Wouldn't have taken him more than five minutes to realise his mistake. I checked every back street wide enough for a car five minutes from Lauriston Gardens...
Sherlock: ..and anywhere you could dispose of a bulky object without being observed.
Sherlock: Took me less than an hour to find the right skip.
Watson:Pink. You got all that because you realised the case would be pink?
Sherlock: Well, it had to be pink, obviously.
Watson:Why didn't I think of that?
Sherlock: Because you're an idiot.
Sherlock: No, no, no, don't look like that. Practically everyone is.
Sherlock: Now, look. Do you see what's missing?
Watson:From the case? How could I?
Sherlock: Her phone. Where's her mobile phone? There was no phone on the body, there's no phone in the case. We know she had one – that's her number there; you just texted it.
Watson:Maybe she left it at home.
Sherlock: She has a string of lovers and she's careful about it. She never leaves her phone at home.
Watson:Er...
Watson:Why did I just send that text?
Sherlock: Well, the question is: where is her phone now?
Watson:She could have lost it.
Sherlock: Yes, or...?
Watson:The m*rder... You think the m*rder has the phone?
Sherlock: Maybe she... left it when she left her case. Maybe he took it from her for some reason. Either way, the balance of probability is the m*rder has her phone.
Watson:Sorry... what are we doing? Did I just text a m*rder?! What good will that do?
Sherlock: A few hours after his last victim, and now he receives a text that can only be from her. If somebody had just found that phone they'd ignore a text like that, but the m*rder...
Sherlock: ..would panic.
Watson:Have you talked to the police?
Sherlock: Four people are d*ad. There isn't time to talk to the police.
Watson:So why are you talking to me?
Sherlock: Mrs Hudson took my skull.
Watson:So I'm basically filling in for your skull?
Sherlock: Relax, you're doing fine.
Sherlock: Well?
Watson:Well what?
Sherlock: Well, you could just sit there and watch telly.
Watson:What, you want me to come with you?
Sherlock: I like company when I go out, and I think better when I talk aloud. The skull just attracts attention, so...
Sherlock: Problem?
Watson:Yeah, Sergeant Donovan.
Sherlock: What about her?
Watson:She said... You get off on this. You enjoy it.
Sherlock: And I said "dangerous", and here you are.
Watson:Damn it!
Not long afterwards, John catches up to Sherlock in the street and they continue down the road.
Watson:Where are we going?
Sherlock: Northumberland Street's a five-minute walk from here.
Watson:You think he's stupid enough to go there?
Sherlock: No, I think he's brilliant enough. I love the brilliant ones. They're always so desperate to get caught.
Watson:Why?
Sherlock: Appreciation! Applause! At long last the spotlight. That's the frailty of genius, John, it needs an audience.
Watson:Yeah.
Sherlock: This is his hunting ground, right here in the heart of the city. Now that we know his victims were abducted, that changes everything. Because all of his victims disappeared from busy streets, crowded places, but nobody saw them go.
Sherlock: Think! Who do we trust, even though we don't know them? Who passes unnoticed wherever they go? Who hunts in the middle of a crowd?
Watson:Dunno. Who?
Sherlock: Haven't the faintest. Hungry?
Sherlock: Thank you, Billy.
Sherlock: Twenty-two Northumberland Street. Keep your eyes on it.
Watson:He isn't just gonna ring the doorbell, though, is he? He'd need to be mad.
Sherlock: He has k*lled four people.
Watson:..Okay.
Angelo: Sherlock!
Angelo: Anything on the menu, whatever you want, free.
Angelo: On the house, for you and for your date.
Sherlock: Do you want to eat?
Watson:I'm not his date.
Angelo: This man got me off a m*rder charge.
Sherlock: This is Angelo.
Sherlock: Three years ago I successfully proved to Lestrade at the time of a particularly vicious triple m*rder that Angelo was in a completely different part of town, house-breaking.
Angelo: He cleared my name.
Sherlock: I cleared it a bit. Anything happening opposite?
Angelo: Nothing. But for this man, I'd have gone to prison.
Sherlock: You did go to prison.
Angelo: I'll get a candle for the table. It's more romantic.
Watson:I'm not his date!
Sherlock: You may as well eat. We might have a long wait.
Watson:Thanks!
Watson:People don't have arch-enemies.
Sherlock: I'm sorry?
Watson:In real life. There are no arch-enemies in real life. Doesn't happen.
Sherlock: Doesn't it?
Sounds a bit dull.
Watson:So who did I meet?
Sherlock: What do real people have, then, in their "real lives"?
Watson:Friends? People they know, people they like, people they don't like... Girlfriends, boyfriends...
Sherlock: Yes, well, as I was saying, dull.
Watson:You don't have a girlfriend, then?
Sherlock: Girlfriend? No, not really my area.
Watson:Mm.
Watson:Oh, right. D'you have a boyfriend?
Watson:Which is fine, by the way.
Sherlock: I know it's fine.
Watson:So you've got a boyfriend then?
Sherlock: No.
Watson:Right. Okay. You're unattached. Like me. Fine. Good.
Sherlock: John, um... I think you should know that I consider myself married to my work, and while I'm flattered by your interest, I'm really not looking for any...
Watson:No. No, I'm not asking. No.
Watson:I'm just saying, it's all fine.
Sherlock: Good. Thank you.
Sherlock: Look across the street. Taxi.
Sherlock: Stopped. Nobody getting in, and nobody getting out.
Sherlock: Why a taxi? Oh, that's clever. Is it clever? Why is it clever?
Watson:That's him?
Sherlock: Don't stare.
Watson:You're staring.
Sherlock: We can't both stare.
Watson:Sorry.
Watson:I've got the cab number.
Sherlock: Good for you.
Sherlock: Right turn, one way, roadworks, traffic lights, bus lane, pedestrian crossing, left turn only, traffic lights.
Man: Oy!
Watson:Sorry.
Sherlock: Come on, John...
Sherlock: Come on, John. We're losing him!
Sherlock: Ah, no!
Sherlock: This way.
Sherlock: No, this way!
Watson:Sorry...
Sherlock: Police! Open her up!
Sherlock:  No.
Sherlock: Teeth, tan. What, Californian?
Sherlock: L.A., Santa Monica. Just arrived.
Watson:How can you possibly know that?
Sherlock: The luggage.
Sherlock: It's probably your first trip to London, right, going by your final destination and the route the cabbie was taking you?
Passenger: Sorry, are you guys the police?
Sherlock: Yeah. Everything all right?
Passenger: Yeah.
Sherlock: Welcome to London.
Watson:Er, any problems, just let us know.
Watson:Basically just a cab that happened to slow down.
Sherlock: Basically.
Watson:Not the m*rder.
Sherlock: Not the m*rder, no.
Watson:Wrong country, good alibi.
Sherlock: As they go.
Watson:Hey, where-where did you get this? Here.
Watson:Right. Detective Inspector Lestrade?
Sherlock: Yeah. I pickpocket him when he's annoying. You can keep that one, I've got plenty at the flat.
Sherlock: What?
Watson:Nothing, just... "Welcome to London".
Sherlock: Got your breath back?
Watson:Ready when you are.
221B.
Watson:Okay, that was ridiculous.
Watson:That was the most ridiculous thing I've ever done.
Sherlock: And you inv*de Afghanistan.
Watson:That wasn't just me.
Watson:Why aren't we back at the restaurant?
Sherlock: Oh, they can keep an eye out. It was a long sh*t anyway.
Watson:So what were we doing there?
Sherlock: Oh, just passing the time.
Sherlock: And proving a point.
Watson:What point?
Sherlock: You.
Sherlock: Mrs Hudson! Doctor Watson will take the room upstairs.
Watson:Says who?
Sherlock: Says the man at the door.
Angelo: Sherlock texted me.
Angelo: He said you forgot this.
Watson:Ah...
Watson:Er, thank you. Thank you.
Mrs Hudson: Sherlock, what have you done?
Sherlock: Mrs Hudson?
Mrs Hudson: Upstairs.
Sherlock: What are you doing?
Lestrade: Well, I knew you'd find the case. I'm not stupid.
Sherlock: You can't just break into my flat.
Lestrade: And you can't withhold evidence. And I didn't break into your flat.
Sherlock: Well, what do you call this then?
Lestrade: It's a drugs bust.
Watson:Seriously?! This guy - a junkie? Have you met him?
Sherlock: John...
Watson:I'm pretty sure you could search this flat all day, you wouldn't find anything you could call recreational.
Sherlock: John, you probably want to shut up now.
Watson:Yeah, but come on...
Watson:No...
Sherlock: What?
Watson:You?
Sherlock: Shut up!
Sherlock: I'm not your sniffer dog.
Lestrade: No, Anderson's my sniffer dog.
Sherlock: What, An...
Sherlock: Anderson, what are you doing here on a drugs bust?
Anderson: Oh, I volunteered.
Lestrade: They all did. They're not strictly speaking on the drugs squad, but they're very keen.
Donovan: Are these human eyes?
Sherlock: Put those back!
Donovan: They were in the microwave!
Sherlock: It's an experiment.
Lestrade: Keep looking, guys.
Lestrade: Or you could help us properly and I'll stand them down.
Sherlock: This is childish.
Lestrade: Well, I'm dealing with a child. Sherlock, this is our case. I'm letting you in, but you do not go off on your own. Clear?
Sherlock: Oh, what, so-so-so you set up a pretend drugs bust to bully me?
Lestrade: It stops being pretend if they find anything.
Sherlock: I am clean!
Lestrade: Is your flat? All of it?
Sherlock: I don't even smoke.
Lestrade: Neither do I.
Lestrade: So let's work together. We've found Rachel.
Sherlock: Who is she?
Lestrade: Jennifer Wilson's only daughter.
Sherlock: Her daughter? Why would she write her daughter's name? Why?
Anderson: Never mind that. We found the case.
Anderson: According to someone, the m*rder has the case, and we found it in the hands of our favourite psychopath.
Sherlock: I'm not a psychopath, Anderson. I'm a high-functioning sociopath. Do your research.
Sherlock: You need to bring Rachel in. You need to question her. I need to question her.
Lestrade: She's d*ad.
Sherlock: Excellent!
Sherlock: How, when and why? Is there a connection? There has to be.
Lestrade: Well, I doubt it, since she's been d*ad for fourteen years. Technically she was never alive. Rachel was Jennifer Wilson's stillborn daughter, fourteen years ago.
Sherlock: No, that's... that's not right. How... Why would she do that? Why?
Anderson: Why would she think of her daughter in her last moments?! Yup – sociopath, I'm seeing it now.
Sherlock: She didn't think about her daughter. She scratched her name on the floor with her fingernails. She was dying. It took effort. It would have hurt.
Watson:You said that the victims all took the poison themselves, that he makes them take it. Well, maybe he... I don't know, talks to them? Maybe he used the death of her daughter somehow.
Sherlock: Yeah, but that was ages ago. Why would she still be upset?
Sherlock: Not good?
Watson:Bit not good, yeah.
Sherlock: Yeah, but if you were dying... if you'd been m*rder: in your very last few seconds what would you say?
Watson:"Please, God, let me live."
Sherlock: Oh, use your imagination!
Watson:I don't have to.
Sherlock: Yeah, but if you were clever, really clever. Jennifer Wilson running all those lovers - she was clever.
Sherlock: She's trying to tell us something.
Mrs Hudson: Isn't the doorbell working? Your taxi's here, Sherlock.
Sherlock: I didn't order a taxi. Go away.
Mrs Hudson: Oh, dear. They're making such a mess. What are they looking for?
Watson:It's a drugs bust, Mrs Hudson.
Mrs Hudson: But they're just for my hip. They're herbal soothers.
Sherlock: Shut up, everybody, shut up! Don't move, don't speak, don't breathe. I'm trying to think. Anderson, face the other way. You're putting me off.
Anderson: What? My face is?!
Lestrade: Everybody quiet and still. Anderson, turn your back.
Anderson: Oh, for God's sake!
Lestrade: Your back, now, please!
Sherlock: Come on, think. Quick!
Mrs Hudson: What about your taxi?
Sherlock:  Mrs Hudson!
Sherlock: Oh...
Sherlock: Ah! She was clever, clever, yes!
Sherlock: She's cleverer than you lot and she's d*ad. Do you see, do you get it? She didn't lose her phone, she never lost it. She planted it on him.
Sherlock: When she got out of the car, she knew that she was going to her death. She left the phone in order to lead us to her k*ller.
Lestrade: But how?
Sherlock: Wha...? What do you mean, how?
Sherlock: Rachel!
Sherlock: Don't you see? Rachel!
Sherlock: Oh, look at you lot. You're all so vacant. Is it nice not being me? It must be so relaxing. Rachel is not a name.
Watson:Then what is it?
Sherlock: John, on the luggage, there's a label. E-mail address.
Watson:Er, jennie dot pink at mephone dot org dot uk.
Sherlock: Oh, I've been too slow. She didn't have a laptop, which means she did her business on her phone, so it's a smartphone, it's e-mail enabled.
Sherlock: So there was a website for her account. The username is her e-mail address...
Sherlock: ..and all together now, the password is?
Watson:Rachel.
Anderson: So we can read her e-mails. So what?
Sherlock: Anderson, don't talk out loud. You lower the I.Q. of the whole street. We can do much more than just read her e-mails. It's a smartphone, it's got GPS, which means if you lose it you can locate it online. She's leading us directly to the man who k*lled her.
Lestrade: Unless he got rid of it.
Watson:We know he didn't.
Sherlock: Come on, come on. Quickly!
Mrs Hudson: Sherlock, dear. This taxi driver...
Sherlock: Mrs Hudson, isn't it time for your evening soother?
Sherlock: We need to get vehicles, get a helicopter.
Sherlock: We're gonna have to move fast. This phone battery won't last for ever.
Lestrade: We'll just have a map reference, not a name.
Sherlock: It's a start!
Watson:Sherlock...
Sherlock: It narrows it down from just anyone in London. It's the first proper lead that we've had.
Watson:Sherlock...
Sherlock: What is it? Quickly, where?
Watson:It's here. It's in two two one Baker Street.
Sherlock: How can it be here? How?
Lestrade: Well, maybe it was in the case when you brought it back and it fell out somewhere.
Sherlock: What, and I didn't notice it? Me? I didn't notice?
Watson:Anyway, we texted him and he called back.
Lestrade: Guys, we're also looking for a mobile somewhere here, belonged to the victim...
Sherlock: Who do we trust, even if we don't know them?
Sherlock: Who passes unnoticed wherever they go?
Sherlock: Who hunts in the middle of a crowd?
Watson:Sherlock, you okay?
Sherlock: What? Yeah, yeah... I-I'm fine.
Watson:So, how can the phone be here?
Sherlock: Dunno.
Watson:I'll try it again.
Sherlock: Good idea.
Watson:Where are you going?
Sherlock: Fresh air. Just popping outside for a moment. Won't be long.
Watson:You sure you're all right?
Sherlock: I'm fine.
Jeff: Taxi for Sherlock 'olmes.
Sherlock: I didn't order a taxi.
Jeff: Doesn't mean you don't need one.
Sherlock: You're the cabbie. The one who stopped outside Northumberland Street.
Sherlock: It was you, not your passenger.
Jeff: See? No-one ever thinks about the cabbie. It's like you're invisible. Just the back of an 'ead. Proper advantage for a serial k*ller.
Sherlock: Is this a confession?
Jeff: Oh, yeah. An' I'll tell you what else: if you call the coppers now, I won't run. I'll sit quiet and they can take me down, I promise.
Sherlock: Why?
Jeff: 'Cause you're not gonna do that.
Sherlock: Am I not?
Jeff: I didn't k*ll those four people, Mr. 'olmes. I spoke to 'em... and they k*lled themselves. An' if you get the coppers now, I promise you one thing.
Jeff: I will never tell you what I said.
Sherlock: No-one else will die, though, and I believe they call that a result.
Jeff: An' you won't ever understand how those people d*ed. What kind of result do you care about?
Sherlock: If I wanted to understand, what would I do?
Jeff: Let me take you for a ride.
Sherlock: So you can k*ll me too?
Jeff: I don't wanna k*ll you, Mr. 'olmes. I'm gonna talk to yer... and then you're gonna k*ll yourself.
Watson:He just got in a cab.
Watson:It's Sherlock. He just drove off in a cab.
Donovan: I told you, he does that.
Donovan: He bloody left again.
Donovan: We're wasting our time!
Watson:I'm calling the phone. It's ringing out.
Lestrade: If it's ringing, it's not here.
Watson:I'll try the search again.
Donovan: Does it matter? Does any of it? You know, he's just a lunatic, and he'll always let you down, and you're wasting your time. All our time.
Lestrade: Okay, everybody. Done 'ere.
Sherlock: How did you find me?
Jeff: Oh, I recognised yer, soon as I saw you chasing my cab. Sherlock 'olmes! I was warned about you. I've been on your website, too. Brilliant stuff! Loved it!
Sherlock: Who warned you about me?
Jeff: Just someone out there who's noticed you.
Sherlock: Who?
Sherlock: Who would notice me?
Jeff: You're too modest, Mr. 'olmes.
Sherlock: I'm really not.
Jeff: You've got yourself a fan.
Sherlock: Tell me more.
Jeff: That's all you're gonna know...
Jeff: ..in this lifetime.
Lestrade: Why did he do that? Why did he have to leave?
Watson:You know him better than I do.
Lestrade: I've known him for five years and no, I don't.
Watson:So why do you put up with him?
Lestrade: Because I'm desperate, that's why.
Lestrade: And because Sherlock Holmes is a great man. And I think one day, if we're very, very lucky, he might even be a good one.
Sherlock: Where are we?
Jeff: You know every street in London. You know exactly where we are.
Sherlock: Roland-Kerr Further Education College. Why here?
Jeff: It's open. Cleaners are in. One thing about being a cabbie - you always know a nice quiet spot for a m*rder. I'm surprised more of us don't branch out.
Sherlock: And you just walk your victims in? How?
Sherlock: Oh... dull.
Jeff: Don't worry. It gets better.
Sherlock: You can't make people take their own lives at g*n.
Jeff: I don't. It's much better than that.
Jeff: Don't need this with you, 'cause you'll follow me.
Jeff: Well, what do you think?
Jeff: It's up to you. You're the one who's gonna die 'ere.
Sherlock: No, I'm not.
Jeff: That's what they all say.
Jeff: Shall we talk?
Sherlock: Bit risky, wasn't it? Took me away under the eye of about half a dozen policemen. They're not that stupid. And Mrs Hudson will remember you.
Jeff: You call that a risk? Nah...
Jeff: This... is a risk.
Jeff: Ooh, I like this bit. 'Cause you don't get it yet, do yer? But you're about to. I just have to do this.
Jeff: You weren't expecting that, were yer?
Jeff: Ooh, you're going to love this.
Sherlock: Love what?
Jeff: Sherlock 'olmes. Look at you! 'Ere in the flesh. That website of yours: your fan told me about it.
Sherlock: My fan?
Jeff: You are brilliant. You are. A proper genius. "The Science of Deduction." Now that is proper thinking. Between you and me sitting 'ere, why can't people think?
Jeff: Don't it make you mad? Why can't people just think?
Sherlock: Oh, I see. So you're a proper genius too.
Jeff: Don't look it, do I? Funny little man drivin' a cab. But you'll know better in a minute. Chances are it'll be the last thing you ever know.
Sherlock: Okay, two bottles. Explain.
Jeff: There's a good bottle and a bad bottle. You take the pill from the good bottle, you live; take the pill from the bad bottle, you die.
Sherlock: Both bottles are of course identical.
Jeff: In every way.
Sherlock: And you know which is which.
Jeff: Course I know.
Sherlock: But I don't.
Jeff: Wouldn't be a game if you knew. You're the one who chooses.
Sherlock: Why should I? I've got nothing to go on. What's in it for me?
Jeff: I 'aven't told you the best bit yet. Whatever bottle you choose, I take the pill from the other one, and then, together, we take our medicine.
Jeff: I won't cheat. It's your choice. I'll take whatever pill you don't.
Jeff: Didn't expect that, did you, Mr. 'olmes?
Sherlock: This is what you did to the rest of them: you gave them a choice.
Jeff: And now I'm givin' you one.
Jeff: You take your time. Get yourself together.
Jeff: I want your best game.
Sherlock: It's not a game. It's chance.
Jeff: I've played four times. I'm alive. It's not chance, Mr. 'olmes, it's chess. It's a game of chess, with one move, and one survivor. And this... this... is the move.
Jeff: Did I just give you the good bottle or the bad bottle? You can choose either one.
Watson:No, Detective Inspector Lestrade. I need to speak to him. It's important. It's an emergency!
Watson:Er, left here, please. Left here.
Jeff: You ready yet, Mr. 'olmes? Ready to play?
Sherlock: Play what? It's a fifty-fifty chance.
Jeff: You're not playin' the numbers, you're playin' me. Did I just give you the good pill or the bad pill? Is it a bluff? Or a double-bluff? Or a triple-bluff?
Sherlock: Still just chance.
Jeff: Four people in a row? It's not just chance.
Sherlock: Luck.
Jeff: It's genius. I know 'ow people think.
Jeff: I know 'ow people think I think. I can see it all, like a map inside my 'ead.
Jeff: Everyone's so stupid – even you.
Jeff: Or maybe God just loves me.
Sherlock: Either way, you're wasted as a cabbie.
Sherlock: So... you risked your life four times just to k*ll strangers. Why?
Jeff: Time to play.
Sherlock: Oh, I am playing. This is my turn. There's shaving foam behind your left ear. Nobody's pointed it out to you.
Sherlock: Traces of where it's happened before, so obviously you live on your own; there's no-one to tell you.
Sherlock: But there's a photograph of children. The children's mother has been cut out of the picture. If she'd d*ed, she'd still be there.
Sherlock: The photograph's old but the frame's new. You think of your children but you don't get to see them.
Sherlock: Estranged father. She took the kids, but you still love them and it still hurts.
Sherlock: Ah, but there's more.
Sherlock: Your clothes: recently laundered but everything you're wearing's at least... three years old? Keeping up appearances but not planning ahead. And here you are on a kamikaze m*rder spree. What's that about?
Sherlock: Ah... Three years ago. Is that when they told you?
Jeff: Told me what?
Sherlock: That you're a d*ad man walking.
Jeff: So are you.
Sherlock: You don't have long, though. Am I right?
Jeff: Aneurism.
Jeff: Right in 'ere.
Jeff: Any breath could be my last.
Sherlock: And because you're dying, you've just m*rder four people.
Jeff: I've outlived four people. That's the most fun you can 'ave on an aneurism.
Sherlock: No. No, there's something else. You didn't just k*ll four people because you're bitter. Bitterness is a paralytic. Love is a much more vicious motivator. Somehow this is about your children.
Jeff: Ohh.
Jeff: You are good, ain't you?
Sherlock: But how?
Jeff: When I die, they won't get much, my kids. Not a lot of money in driving cabs.
Sherlock: Or serial k*lling.
Jeff: You'd be surprised.
Sherlock: Surprise me.
Jeff: I 'ave a sponsor.
Sherlock: You have a what?
Jeff: For every life I take, money goes to my kids. The more I k*ll, the better off they'll be. You see? It's nicer than you think.
Sherlock: Who'd sponsor a serial k*ller?
Jeff: Who'd be a fan of Sherlock 'olmes?
Jeff: You're not the only one to enjoy a good m*rder. There's others out there just like you, except you're just a man... and they're so much more than that.
Sherlock: What d'you mean, more than a man? An organisation? What?
Jeff: There's a name no-one says, an' I'm not gonna say it either. Now, enough chatter.
Jeff: Time to choose.
Watson:Sherlock?
Watson:Sherlock!
Sherlock: What if I don't choose either? I could just walk out of here.
Jeff: You can take your fifty-fifty chance, or I can sh**t you in the head.
Jeff: Funnily enough, no-one's ever gone for that option.
Sherlock: I'll have the g*n, please.
Jeff: Are you sure?
Sherlock: Definitely. The g*n.
Jeff: You don't wanna phone a friend?
Sherlock: The g*n.
Sherlock: I know a real g*n when I see one.
Jeff: None of the others did.
Sherlock: Clearly. Well, this has been very interesting. I look forward to the court case.
Jeff: Just before you go, did you figure it out...
Jeff: ..which one's the good bottle?
Sherlock: Of course. Child's play.
Jeff: Well, which one, then?
Jeff: Which one would you 'ave picked, just so I know whether I could have beaten you?
Jeff: Come on. Play the game.
Jeff: Oh. Interesting.
Jeff: So what d'you think?
Jeff: Shall we?
Jeff: Really, what do you think?
Jeff: Can you b*at me?
Jeff: Are you clever enough to bet your life?
Watson: Sherlock!
Jeff: I bet you get bored, don't you? I know you do. A man like you... So clever. But what's the point of being clever if you can't prove it?
Jeff: Still the addict.
Jeff: But this... this is what you're really addicted to, innit?
Jeff: You'd do anything... anything at all...
Jeff: ..to stop being bored.
Jeff: You're not bored now, are you?
Jeff: Innit good?
Sherlock: Was I right?
Sherlock: I was, wasn't I? Did I get it right?
Sherlock: Okay, tell me this. Your sponsor. Who was it? The one who told you about me, my fan. I want a name.
Jeff: No...
Sherlock: You're dying, but there's still time to hurt you. Give me a name.
Sherlock: A name! Now!
Sherlock: The name!
Jeff: Moriarty!
LATER. Outside the college.
Sherlock: Why have I got this blanket? They keep putting this blanket on me.
Lestrade: Yeah, it's for shock.
Sherlock: I'm not in shock.
Lestrade: Yeah, but some of the guys wanna take photographs.
Sherlock: So, the sh**t. No sign?
Lestrade: Cleared off before we got 'ere. But a guy like that would have had enemies, I suppose. One of them could have been following him but... got nothing to go on.
Sherlock: Oh, I wouldn't say that.
Lestrade: Okay, gimme.
Sherlock: The b*llet they just dug out of the wall's from a g*n. A k*ll sh*t over that distance, from that kind of a w*apon, that's a crack sh*t. But not just a marksman, a fighter. His hands couldn't have shaken at all, so clearly he's acclimatised to v*olence. He didn't f*re until I was in immediate danger, though, so strong moral principle. You're looking for a man probably with a history of military service and... and nerves of steel...
Sherlock: Actually, do you know what? Ignore me.
Lestrade: Sorry?
Sherlock: Ignore all of that. It's just the, er... the shock talking.
Lestrade: Where're you going?
Sherlock: I just need to talk about the-the rent.
Lestrade: But I've still got questions for you.
Sherlock: Oh, what now? I'm in shock! Look, I've got a blanket!
Lestrade: Sherlock!
Sherlock: And... I just caught you a serial k*ller... more or less.
Lestrade: Okay. We'll bring you in tomorrow. Off you go.
Watson:Erm... Sergeant Donovan's... just been explaining... everything. Two pills... Dreadful business, isn't it? Dreadful.
Sherlock: Good sh*t.
Watson:Yes. Yes, must have been, through that window.
Sherlock: Well, you'd know.
Sherlock: Need to get the powder burns out of your fingers. I don't suppose you'd serve time for this, but let's avoid the court case.
Sherlock: Are you all right?
Watson:Yes, of course I'm all right.
Sherlock: Well, you have just k*lled a man.
Watson:Yes, I...
Watson:That's true, innit?
Watson:But he wasn't a very nice man.
Sherlock: No. No, he wasn't really, was he?
Watson:And frankly a bloody awful cabbie.
Sherlock: That's true. He was a bad cabbie. Should have seen the route he took us to get here!
Watson:Stop! Stop, we can't giggle, it's a crime scene! Stop it!
Sherlock: You're the one who sh*t him. Don't blame me.
Watson:Keep your voice down!
Watson:Sorry, it's just, erm... nerves, I think.
Sherlock: Sorry.
Watson:You were gonna take that damned pill, weren't you?
Sherlock: Course I wasn't. Biding my time. Knew you'd turn up.
Watson:No you didn't. It's how you get your kicks, isn't it? You risk your life to prove you're clever.
Sherlock: Why would I do that?
Watson:Because you're an idiot.
Sherlock: Dinner?
Watson:Starving.
Sherlock: End of Baker Street, there's a good Chinese stays open 'til two. You can always tell a good Chinese by examining the bottom third of the door handle.
Watson:Sherlock. That's him. That's the man I was talking to you about.
Sherlock: I know exactly who that is.
Man: So, another case cracked. How very public spirited... though that's never really your motivation, is it?
Sherlock: What are you doing here?
Man: As ever, I'm concerned about you.
Sherlock: Yes, I've been hearing about your "concern".
Man: Always so aggressive. Did it never occur to you that you and I belong on the same side?
Sherlock: Oddly enough... no!
Man: We have more in common than you like to believe. This petty feud between us is simply childish. People will suffer... and you know how it always upset Mummy.
Sherlock: I upset her? Me?
Sherlock: It wasn't me that upset her, Mycroft.
Watson:No, no, wait. Mummy? Who's Mummy?
Sherlock: Mother. Our mother. This is my brother, Mycroft.
Sherlock: Putting on weight again?
Man/Mycroft: Losing it, in fact.
Watson:He's your brother?!
Sherlock: Of course he's my brother.
Watson:So he's not...
Sherlock: Not what?
Watson:I dunno... criminal mastermind?
Sherlock: Close enough.
Mycroft: For goodness' sake. I occupy a minor position in the British Government.
Sherlock: He is the British Government, when he's not too busy being the British Secret Service or the CIA on a freelance basis.
Sherlock: Good evening, Mycroft. Try not to start a w*r before I get home - you know what it does for the traffic.
Watson:So, when-when you say you're concerned about him, you actually are concerned?
Mycroft: Yes, of course.
Watson:I mean, it actually is a childish feud?
Mycroft: He's always been so resentful. You can imagine the Christmas dinners.
Watson:Yeah... no. God, no!
Watson:I-I'd better, um...
Watson:Hello again.
Not-Anthea: Hello.
Watson:Yes, we-we met earlier on this evening.
Not-Anthea: Oh!
Watson:Okay, good night.
Mycroft: Good night, Doctor Watson.
Watson:So: dim sum.
Sherlock: Mmm! I can always predict the fortune cookies.
Watson:No you can't.
Sherlock: Almost can. You did get sh*t, though.
Watson:Sorry?
Sherlock: In Afghanistan. There was an actual wound.
Watson:Oh, yeah. Shoulder.
Sherlock: Shoulder! I thought so.
Watson:No you didn't.
Sherlock: The left one.
Watson:Lucky guess.
Sherlock: I never guess.
Watson:Yes you do.
Watson:What are you so happy about?
Sherlock: Moriarty.
Watson:What's Moriarty?
Sherlock: I've absolutely no idea.
Not-Anthea: Sir, shall we go?
Mycroft: Interesting, that soldier fellow.
Mycroft: He could be the making of my brother... or make him worse than ever. Either way, we'd better upgrade their surveillance status. Grade Three Active.
Not-Anthea: Sorry, sir. Whose status?
Mycroft: Sherlock Holmes and Doctor Watson.Soo Lin: The great artisans say the more the teapot is used, the more beautiful it becomes.
Soo Lin: The pot is seasoned by repeatedly pouring tea over the surface. The deposit left on the clay creates this beautiful patina over time.
Soo Lin: For some pots, the clay has been burnished by tea made over four hundred years ago.
Tannoy Announcement: This museum will be closing in ten minutes.
Andy: Four hundred years old, and they're lettin' you use it to make yourself a brew!
Soo Lin: Some things aren't supposed to sit behind glass. They're made to be touched; to be handled.
Soo Lin:  These pots need attention. The clay is cracking.
Andy: Well, I can't see how a tiny splash of tea's gonna help.
Soo Lin: Sometimes you have to look hard at something to see its value.
Soo Lin: See? This one shines a little brighter.
Andy: I don't suppose... um, I mean, I don't suppose that you... you wanna have a drink? Not tea, obviously. Um, in a pub, with me, tonight... Um...?
Soo Lin: You wouldn't like me all that much.
Andy: Couldn't I maybe decide that for myself?
Soo Lin: I can't. I'm sorry. Please stop asking.
Soo Lin: Is that Security?
Soo Lin: Hello?
Sherlock
Season 1 Episode 2
The Blind Banker
Original air date on August 1, 2010
PA system: Can the till supervisor please go to...?
Automated Voice: Unexpected item in bagging area. Please try again.
Automated Voice: Item not scanned. Please try again.
Watson:D'you think you could keep your voice down?
Automated Voice: Card not authorised. Please use an alternative method of payment.
Watson:Yes, all right! I've got it!
Automated Voice: Card not authorised. Please use an alternative method of payment.
Watson:Got nothing.
Watson:Right, keep it. Keep that.
Sherlock: Look!
Sherlock: You took your time.
Watson:Yeah, I didn't get the shopping.
Sherlock: What? Why not?
Watson:Because I had a row, in the shop, with a chip-and-PIN machine.
Sherlock: You... you had a row with a machine?
Watson:Sort of. It sat there and I shouted abuse. Have you got cash?
Sherlock: Take my card.
Watson:You could always go yourself, you know. You've been sitting there all morning. You've not even moved since I left.
Watson:And what happened about that case you were offered – the Jaria Diamond?
Sherlock: Not interested.
Sherlock: I sent them a message.
Watson:Ugh, Holmes.
Watson:Don't worry about me. I can manage.
Watson:Is that my computer?
Sherlock: Of course.
Watson:What?!
Sherlock: Mine was in the bedroom.
Watson:What, and you couldn't be bothered to get up?
Watson:It's password protected!
Sherlock: In a manner of speaking. Took me less than a minute to guess yours. Not exactly Fort Knox.
Watson:Right, thank you.
Watson:Oh.
Watson:Need to get a job.
Sherlock: Oh, dull.
Watson:Listen, um... if you'd be able to lend me some...
Watson:Sherlock, are you listening?
Sherlock: I need to go to the bank.
Watson:Yes, when you said we were going to the bank...
Sherlock: Sherlock Holmes.
Sebastian: Sherlock Holmes.
Sherlock: Sebastian.
Sebastian: Howdy, buddy. How long's it been? Eight years since I last clapped eyes on you?
Sherlock: This is my friend, John Watson.
Sebastian: Friend?
Watson:Colleague.
Sebastian: Right.
Sebastian: Well, grab a pew. D'you need anything? Coffee, water?
Watson:No.
Sebastian: No? We're all sorted here, thanks.
Sherlock: So, you're doing well. You've been abroad a lot.
Sebastian: Well, some.
Sherlock: Flying all the way round the world twice in a month?
Sebastian:  Right. You're doing that thing.
Sebastian: We were at uni together. This guy here had a trick he used to do.
Sherlock: It's not a trick.
Sebastian: He could look at you and tell you your whole life story.
Watson:Yes, I've seen him do it.
Sebastian: Put the wind up everybody. We hated him.
Sebastian: You'd come down to breakfast in the Formal Hall and this freak would know you'd been shagging the previous night.
Sherlock: I simply observed.
Sebastian: Go on, enlighten me. Two trips a month, flying all the way around the world – you're quite right. How could you tell?
Sebastian: You're gonna tell me there was, um, a stain on my tie from some special kind of ketchup you can only buy in Manhattan.
Sherlock: No, I...
Sebastian: Maybe it was the mud on my shoes!
Sherlock: I was just chatting with your secretary outside. She told me.
Sebastian:  I'm glad you could make it over. We've had a break-in.
Sebastian: Sir William's office – the bank's former Chairman. The room's been left here like a sort of memorial. Someone broke in late last night.
Watson:What did they steal?
Sebastian: Nothing. Just left a little message.
Sebastian: Sixty seconds apart.
Sebastian: So, someone came up here in the middle of the night, splashed paint around, then left within a minute.
Sherlock: How many ways into that office?
Sebastian: Well, that's where this gets really interesting.
Sebastian: Every door that opens in this bank, it gets logged right here. Every walk-in cupboard, every toilet.
Sherlock: That door didn't open last night.
Sebastian: There's a hole in our security. Find it and we'll pay you –
five figures.
Sebastian: This is an advance. Tell me how he got in, there's a bigger one on its way.
Sherlock: I don't need an incentive, Sebastian.
Watson:He's, uh,  he's kidding you, obviously.
Watson:Sh-shall I look after that for him?
Watson:Thanks.
Watson:Two trips around the world this month. You didn't ask his secretary; you said that just to irritate him.
Watson:How did you know?
Sherlock: Did you see his watch?
Watson:His watch?
Sherlock: The time was right but the date was wrong. Said two days ago.
Crossed the dateline twice but he didn't alter it.
Watson:Within a month? How'd you get that part?
Sherlock: New Breitling.
Sherlock: Only came out this February.
Watson:Okay. So d'you think we should sniff around here for a bit longer?
Sherlock: Got everything I need to know already, thanks.
Watson:Hmm?
Sherlock: That graffiti was a message for someone at the bank working on the trading floors. We find the intended recipient and...
Watson:..they'll lead us to the person who sent it?
Sherlock: Obvious.
Watson:Well, there's three hundred people up there. Who was it meant for?
Sherlock: Pillars.
Watson:What?
Sherlock: Pillars and the screens. Very few places you can see that graffiti from. That narrows the field considerably. And of course the message was left at eleven thirty-four last night. That tells us a lot.
Watson:Does it?
Sherlock: Traders come to work at all hours. Some trade with Hong Kong in the middle of the night. That message was intended for someone who came in at midnight.
Sherlock: Not many Van c*ons in the phonebook.
Sherlock: Taxi!
Watson:So what do we do now? Sit here and wait for him to come back?
Sherlock: Just moved in.
Watson:What?
Sherlock: The floor above. New label.
Watson:Could have just replaced it.
Sherlock: No-one ever does that.
Ms Wintle: Hello?
Sherlock: Hi! Um, I live in the flat just below you. I-I don't think we've met.
Ms Wintle: No, well, uh, I've just moved in.
Sherlock: Actually, I've just locked my keys in my flat.
Ms Wintle: D'you want me to buzz you in?
Sherlock: Yeah. And can I use your balcony?
Ms Wintle: What?
Watson:Sherlock.
Watson:Sherlock, are you okay?
Watson:Yeah, any time you feel like letting me in.
Watson:D'you think he'd lost a lot of money? I mean, su1c1de is pretty common among City boys.
Sherlock: We don't know that it was su1c1de.
Watson:Come on. The door was locked from the inside; you had to climb down the balcony.
Sherlock: Been away three days, judging by the laundry.
Sherlock: Look at the case. There was something tightly packed inside it.
Watson:Thanks. I'll take your word for it.
Sherlock: Problem?
Watson:Yeah, I'm not desperate to root around some bloke's dirty underwear.
Sherlock: Those symbols at the bank – the graffiti. Why were they put there?
Watson:What, some sort of code?
Sherlock: Obviously.
Sherlock: Why were they painted? If you want to communicate, why not use e-mail?
Watson:Well, maybe he wasn't answering.
Sherlock: Oh good. You follow.
Watson:No.
Sherlock: What kind of a message would everyone try to avoid?
Sherlock: What about this morning – those letters you were looking at?
Watson:Bills.
Sherlock: Yes. He was being thr*at.
Man's voice:  Bag this up, will you...
Watson:Not by the gas board.
Man's voice: ..and see if you can get prints off this glass.
Sherlock: Ah, Sergeant. We haven't met.
Man: Yeah, I know who you are; and I'd prefer it if you didn't tamper with any of the evidence.
Sherlock: I've phoned Lestrade. Is he on his way?
Man: He's busy. I'm in charge. And it's not Sergeant; it's Detective Inspector. Dimmock.
Dimmock: We're obviously looking at a su1c1de.
Watson:That does seem the only explanation of all the facts.
Sherlock: Wrong. It's one possible explanation of some of the facts.
Sherlock: You've got a solution that you like, but you're choosing to ignore anything you see that doesn't comply with it.
Dimmock: Like?
Sherlock: The wound was on the right side of his head.
Dimmock: And?
Sherlock: Van co*n was left-handed.
Sherlock: Requires quite a bit of contortion.
Dimmock: Left-handed?
Sherlock: Oh, I'm amazed you didn't notice. All you have to do is look around this flat.
Sherlock: Coffee table on the left-hand side; coffee mug handle pointing to the left. Power sockets: habitually used the ones on the left...
Sherlock: Pen and paper on the left-hand side of the phone because he picked it up with his right and took down messages with his left. D'you want me to go on?
Watson:No, I think you've covered it.
Sherlock: Oh, I might as well; I'm almost at the bottom of the list.
Sherlock: There's a Kn*fe on the breadboard with butter on the right side of the blade because he used it with his left.
Sherlock: It's highly unlikely that a left-handed man would sh**t himself in the right side of his head.
Sherlock: Conclusion: someone broke in here and m*rder him. Only explanation of all the facts.
Dimmock: But the g*n: why...
Sherlock: He was waiting for the k*ller. He'd been thr*at.
Dimmock: What?
Watson:Today at the bank. Sort of a warning.
Sherlock: He fired a sh*t when his attacker came in.
Dimmock: And the b*llet?
Sherlock: Went through the open window.
Dimmock: Oh, come on! What are the chances of that?!
Sherlock: Wait until you get the ballistics report. The b*llet in his brain wasn't fired from his g*n. I guarantee it.
Dimmock: But if his door was locked from the inside, how did the k*ller get in?
Sherlock: Good! You're finally asking the right questions.
Sebastian: ..and he's left trying to sort of cut his hair with a fork, which of course can never be done!
Sherlock: It was a thr*at. That's what the graffiti meant.
Sebastian: I'm kind of in a meeting. Can you make an appointment with my secretary?
Sherlock: I don't think this can wait. Sorry, Sebastian. One of your traders – someone who worked in your office – was k*lled.
Sebastian: What?
Watson:Van co*n. The police are at his flat.
Sebastian: k*lled?
Sherlock: Sorry to interfere with everyone's digestion. Still wanna make an appointment? Would, maybe, nine o'clock at Scotland Yard suit?
Sebastian: Harrow, Oxford... very bright guy. Worked in Asia for a while, so...
Watson:..you gave him the Hong Kong accounts?
Sebastian: Lost five mill in a single morning, made it all back a week later. Nerves of steel, Eddie had.
Watson:Who'd wanna k*ll him?
Sebastian: We all make enemies.
Watson:You don't all end up with a b*llet through your temple.
Sebastian: Not usually. 'Scuse me.
Sebastian: It's my Chairman. The police have been on to him. Apparently they're telling him it was a su1c1de.
Sherlock: Well, they've got it wrong, Sebastian. He was m*rder.
Sebastian: Well, I'm afraid they don't see it like that.
Sherlock: Seb.
Sebastian: ..and neither does my boss. I hired you to do a job. Don't get side-tracked.
Watson:I thought bankers were all supposed to be heartless bastards!
Director: I need you to get over to Crispians.
Director: Two Ming vases up for auction – Chenghua. Will you appraise them?
Andy: Er, er, Soo Lin should go. She's the expert.
Director: Soo Lin has resigned her job. I need you.
Sarah: Just locum work.
Watson:No, that's fine.
Sarah: You're, um... well, you're a bit over-qualified.
Watson:Er, I could always do with the money.
Sarah: Well, we've got two away on holiday this week, and one's just left to have a baby. Might be a bit mundane for you.
Watson:Er, no; mundane is good sometimes. Mundane works.
Sarah: It says here you were a soldier.
Watson:And a doctor.
Sarah: Anything else you can do?
Watson:I learned the clarinet at school.
Sarah: Oh!  Well, I look forward to it!
Sherlock: I said, "Could you pass me a pen?"
Watson:What? When?
Sherlock: 'Bout an hour ago.
Watson:Didn't notice I'd gone out, then.
Watson:Yeah, I went to see about a job at that surgery.
Sherlock: How was it?
Watson:It's great. She's great.
Sherlock: Who?
Watson:The job.
Sherlock: "She"?
Watson:It.
Sherlock: Here, have a look.
Watson:Hmm?
Watson:"The intruder who can walk through walls."
Sherlock: Happened last night. Journalist sh*t d*ad in his flat; doors locked, windows bolted from the inside – exactly the same as Van co*n.
Watson:God. You think...
Sherlock: He's k*lled another one.
Sherlock: Brian Lukis, freelance journalist. m*rder in his flat...
Sherlock: ..doors locked from the inside.
Watson:You've gotta admit, it's similar.
Watson:Both men k*lled by someone who can... walk through solid walls.
Sherlock: Inspector, do you seriously believe that Eddie Van co*n was just another City su1c1de?
Sherlock:  You have seen the ballistics report, I suppose?
Dimmock: Mmm.
Sherlock: And the sh*t that k*lled him: was it fired from his own g*n?
Dimmock: No.
Sherlock: No. So this investigation might move a bit quicker if you were to take my word as gospel.
Sherlock: I've just handed you a m*rder enquiry. Five minutes in his flat.
Sherlock: Four floors up. That's why they think they're safe. Put a chain across the door and bolt it shut; think they're impregnable.
Sherlock: They don't reckon for one second that there's another way in.
Dimmock: I don't understand.
Sherlock: You're dealing with a k*ller who can climb.
Dimmock: What are you doing?
Sherlock: He clings to the walls like an insect.
Sherlock: That's how he got in.
Dimmock: What?!
Sherlock: Climbed up the side of the walls, ran along the roof, dropped in through this skylight.
Dimmock: You're not serious! Like Spiderman?!
Sherlock: He scaled six floors of a Docklands apartment building, jumped the balcony to k*ll Van co*n.
Dimmock: Oh, ho-hold on!
Sherlock: And of course that's how he got into the bank. He ran along the window ledge and onto the terrace.
Sherlock: We have to find out what connects these two men.
Sherlock: Date stamped on the book is the same day that he d*ed.
Watson:Sherlock.
Sherlock: So, the k*ller goes to the bank, leaves a thr*at cipher for Van co*n; Van co*n panics, returns to his apartment, locks himself in.
Sherlock: Hours later, he dies.
Watson:The k*ller finds Lukis at the library; he writes the cipher on the shelf where he knows it'll be seen; Lukis goes home.
Sherlock: Late that night, he dies too.
Watson:Why did they die, Sherlock?
Sherlock: Only the cipher can tell us.
Sherlock: The world's run on codes and ciphers, John. From the million-pound security system at the bank, to the PIN machine you took exception to, cryptography inhabits our every waking moment.
Watson:Yes, okay, but...
Sherlock: ..but it's all computer-generated: electronic codes, electronic ciphering methods. This is different. It's an ancient device. Modern code-breaking methods won't unravel it.
Watson:Where are we headed?
Sherlock: I need to ask some advice.
Watson:What?! Sorry?!
Sherlock: You heard me perfectly. I'm not saying it again.
Watson:You need advice?
Sherlock: On painting, yes. I need to talk to an expert.
Raz: Part of a new exhibition.
Sherlock: Interesting.
Raz: I call it Urban Bloodlust Frenzy.
Watson:Catchy!
Raz: I've got two minutes before a Community Support Officer comes round that corner.
Raz: Can we do this while I'm workin'?
Sherlock: Know the author?
Raz: Recognise the paint. It's like Michigan; hardcore propellant. I'd say zinc.
Sherlock: What about the symbols: d'you recognise them?
Raz: Not even sure it's a proper language.
Sherlock: Two men have been m*rder, Raz. Deciphering this is the key to finding out who k*lled them.
Raz: What, and this is all you've got to go on? It's hardly much, now, is it?
Sherlock: Are you gonna help us or not?
Raz: I'll ask around.
Sherlock: Somebody must know something about it.
Voice: Oi!
Community Officer: What the hell do you think you're doing? This gallery is a listed public building.
Watson:No, no, wait, wait. It's not me who painted that.
Watson:I was just holding this for...
Community Officer: Bit of an enthusiast, are we?
Andy: She was right in the middle of an important piece of restoration. Why would she suddenly resign?
Director: Family problems. She said so in her letter.
Andy: But she doesn't have a family. She came to this country on her own.
Director: Andy...
Andy: Look, those teapots, those ceramics: they've become her obsession.
She's been working on restoring them for weeks. I-I can't believe that she would just abandon them.
Director: Perhaps she was getting a bit of unwanted attention.
Sherlock: You've been a while.
Watson:Yeah, well, you know how it is. Custody sergeants don't really like to be hurried, do they?
Watson:Just formalities: fingerprints, charge sheet, and I've gotta be in Magistrates Court on Tuesday.
Sherlock: What?
Watson:Me, Sherlock, in court on Tuesday. They're givin' me an ASBO!
Sherlock: Good. Fine.
Watson:You wanna tell your little pal he's welcome to go and own up any time.
Sherlock: This symbol: I still can't place it.
Sherlock: No, I need you to go to the police station...
Watson:Oy, oy, oy!
Sherlock: ..ask about the journalist.
Watson:Oh, Jesus!
Sherlock: His personal effects will have been impounded. Get hold of his diary, or something that will tell us his movements.
Sherlock: Gonna go and see Van co*n's P.A. If we retrace their steps, somewhere they'll coincide.
Watson:Scotland Yard.
Taxi Driver: Right.
Amanda: Flew back from Dalian Friday. Looks like he had back-to-back meetings with the sales team.
Sherlock: Can you print me up a copy?
Amanda: Sure.
Sherlock: What about the day he d*ed? Can you tell me where he was?
Amanda: Sorry. Bit of a gap.
Amanda: I have all his receipts.
Dimmock: Your friend...
Watson:Listen: whatever you say, I'm behind you one hundred percent.
Dimmock: ..he's an arrogant sod.
Watson:Well, that was mild! People say a lot worse than that.
Dimmock: This is what you wanted, isn't it? The journalist's diary?
Sherlock: What kind of a boss was he, Amanda? Appreciative?
Amanda: Um, no. That's not a word I'd use. The only things Eddie appreciated had a big price tag.
Sherlock: Like that hand cream. He bought that for you, didn't he?
Sherlock: Look at this one. Got a taxi from home on the day he d*ed.
Eighteen pounds fifty.
Amanda: That would get him to the office.
Sherlock: Not rush hour; check the time. Mid-morning. Eighteen would get him as far as...
Amanda: The West End. I remember him saying.
Sherlock: Underground. Printed at one in Piccadilly.
Amanda: So he got a Tube back to the office. Why would he get a taxi into town and then the Tube back?
Sherlock: Because he was delivering something heavy. Didn't want to lug a package up the escalator.
Amanda: Delivering?
Sherlock: To somewhere near Piccadilly Station. Dropped the package, delivered it and then...
Sherlock: ..stopped on his way. He got peckish.
Sherlock: So you bought your lunch from here en route to the station, but where were you headed from? Where did the taxi drop you...?
Watson:Right.
Sherlock: Eddie Van co*n brought a package here the day he d*ed – whatever was hidden inside that case. I've managed to piece together a picture using scraps of information...
Watson:Sherlock...
Sherlock: ..credit card bills, receipts. He flew back from China, then he came here.
Watson:Sherlock...
Sherlock: Somewhere in this street; somewhere near. I don't know where, but...
Watson:That shop over there.
Sherlock: How can you tell?
Watson:Lukis' diary. He was here too. He wrote down the address.
Sherlock: Oh.
Watson:Hello.
Shop Keeper: You want... lucky cat?
Watson:No, thanks. No.
Shop Keeper: Ten pound. Ten pound!
Watson:No.
Shop Keeper: I think your wife, she will like!
Watson:No, thank you.
Watson:Sherlock.
Watson:The label there.
Sherlock: Yes, I see it.
Watson:Exactly the same as the cipher.
Sherlock: It's an ancient number system: Hangzhou.
Sherlock: These days, only street traders use it. Those were numbers written on the wall at the bank and at the library.
Sherlock: Numbers written in an ancient Chinese dialect.
Watson:It's a fifteen! What we thought was the artist's tag – it's a number fifteen.
Sherlock: And the blindfold – the horizontal line? That was a number as well.
Sherlock: The Chinese number one, John.
Watson:We've found it!
Watson:Two men travel back from China. Both head straight for the Lucky Cat emporium. What did they see?
Sherlock: It's not what they saw; it's what they both brought back in those suitcases.
Watson:And you don't mean duty free.
Watson:Thank you.
Sherlock: Think about what Sebastian told us; about Van co*n – about how he stayed afloat in the market.
Watson:Lost five million...
Sherlock: ..made it back in a week.
Watson:Mmm.
Sherlock: That's how he made such easy money.
Watson:He was a smuggler. Mmm.
Sherlock: A guy like him – it would have been perfect.
Sherlock: Business man...
Watson:Mmm-hmm.
Sherlock: ..making frequent trips to Asia. And Lukis was the same...
Sherlock: ..a journalist writing about China.
Watson:Mmm.
Sherlock: Both of them smuggled stuff out, and the Lucky Cat was their drop-off.
Watson:But why did they die? I mean, it doesn't make sense. If they both turn up at the shop and deliver the goods, why would someone thr*at them and k*ll them after the event, after they'd finished the job?
Sherlock: What if one of them was light-fingered?
Watson:How d'you mean?
Sherlock: Stole something; something from the hoard.
Watson:And the k*ller doesn't know which of them took it, so he thr*at them both. Right.
Sherlock: Remind me...
Sherlock: ..when was the last time that it rained?
Sherlock: It's been here since Monday.
Sherlock: No-one's been in that flat for at least three days.
Watson:Could've gone on holiday.
Sherlock: D'you leave your windows open when you go on holiday?
Watson:Sherlock!
Sherlock: Someone else has been here.
Sherlock: Somebody else broke into the flat and knocked over the vase just like I did.
Watson:D'you think maybe you could let me in this time?
Watson:Can you not keep doing this, please?
Sherlock: I'm not the first.
Watson:What?
Sherlock: Somebody's been in here before me!
Watson:What are you saying?
Sherlock: Size eight feet.
Sherlock: Small, but... athletic.
Watson:I'm wasting my breath.
Sherlock: Small, strong hands.
Sherlock: Our acrobat.
Sherlock: But why didn't he close the window when he left...?
Sherlock: Oh, stupid. Stupid. Obvious. He's still here.
Watson:Any time you want to include me.
Sherlock: John! John!
Watson:"No, I'm Sherlock Holmes and I always work alone because no-one else can compete with..."
Watson:"... my MASSIVE INTELLECT!"
Sherlock: The, uh, milk's gone off and the washing's starting to smell. Somebody left here in a hurry three days ago.
Watson:Somebody?
Sherlock: Soo Lin Yao. We have to find her.
Watson:But how, exactly?
Sherlock: Maybe we could start with this.
Watson:You've gone all croaky. Are you getting a cold?
Sherlock:  I'm fine.
Sherlock: When was the last time that you saw her?
Andy: Three days ago, um, here at the museum.
Andy: This morning they told me she'd resigned just like that.
Andy: Just left her work unfinished.
Sherlock: What was the last thing that she did on her final afternoon?
Andy has brought the boys to the basement archive, and now turns the lights on as he leads them in.
Andy: She does this demonstration for the tourists – a-a tea ceremony.
So she would have packed up her things and just put them in here.
Sherlock: We have to get to Soo Lin Yao.
Watson:If she's still alive.
Raz: Sherlock!
Watson:Oh, look who it is.
Raz: Found something you'll like.
Watson:Tuesday morning, all you've gotta do is turn up and say the bag was yours.
Sherlock: Forget about your court date.
Girl: Dude, that was rad!
Sherlock: If you wanna hide a tree in the middle of a forest, this is the best place to do it, wouldn't you say? People would just walk straight past, not knowing, unable to decipher the message.
Raz: There. I spotted it earlier.
Sherlock: They have been in here. And that's the exact same paint?
Raz: Yeah.
Sherlock: John, if we're going to decipher this code, we're gonna need to look for more evidence.
Watson:Answer your phone! I've been calling you!
I've found it.
Watson:It's been painted over!
Watson:I don't understand. It-it was here... ten minutes ago. I saw it. A whole load of graffiti!
Sherlock: Somebody doesn't want me to see it.
Watson:Hey, Sherlock, what are you doing...?
Sherlock: Shh, John, concentrate. I need you to concentrate. Close your eyes.
Watson:No, what? Why? Why?
Watson:What are you doing?!
Sherlock: I need you to maximise your visual memory. Try to picture what you saw. Can you picture it?
Watson:Yeah.
Sherlock: Can you remember it?
Watson:Yes, definitely.
Sherlock: Can you remember the pattern?
Watson:Yes!
Sherlock: How much can you remember it?
Watson:Well, don't worry...
Sherlock: Because the average human memory on visual matters is only sixty-two percent accurate.
Watson:Yeah, well, don't worry – I remember all of it.
Sherlock: Really?
Watson:Yeah, well at least I would... if I can get to my pockets!
Watson:I took a photograph.
Sherlock: Always in pairs, John.
Watson:Hmm?
Sherlock: Numbers... come with partners.
Watson:God, I need to sleep.
Sherlock: Why did he paint it so near the tracks?
Watson:No idea.
Sherlock: Thousands of people pass by there every day.
Watson:Just twenty minutes...
Sherlock: Of course.
Sherlock: Of course! He wants information. He's trying to communicate with his people in the underworld. Whatever was stolen, he wants it back.
Sherlock: Somewhere here in the code.
Sherlock: We can't crack this without Soo Lin Yao.
Watson:Oh, good!
Sherlock: Two men who travelled back from China were m*rder, and their k*ller left them messages in the Hangzhou numerals.
Watson:Soo Lin Yao's in danger. Now, that cipher – it was just the same pattern as the others. He means to k*ll her as well.
Andy: Look, I've tried everywhere: um, friends, colleagues. I-I don't know where she's gone. I mean, she could be a thousand miles away.
Watson:What are you looking at?
Sherlock: Tell me more about those teapots.
Andy: Th-the pots were her obsession. Um, they need urgent work. If-if they dry out, then the clay can start to crumble. Apparently you have to just keep making tea in them.
Sherlock: Yesterday, only one of those pots was shining. Now there are two.
Sherlock: Fancy a biscuit with that?
Sherlock: Centuries old. Don't wanna break that.
Sherlock: Hello.
Soo Lin: You saw the cipher. Then you know he is coming for me.
Sherlock: You've been clever to avoid him so far.
Soo Lin: I had to finish... to finish this work. It's only a matter of time. I know he will find me.
Sherlock: Who is he? Have you met him before?
Soo Lin: When I was a girl, living back in China. I recognise his... 'signature'.
Sherlock: The cipher.
Soo Lin: Only he would do this. Zhi Zhu.
Watson:Zhi Zhu?
Sherlock: The Spider.
Soo Lin: You know this mark?
Sherlock: Yes. It's the mark of a Tong.
Watson:Hmm?
Sherlock: Ancient crime syndicate based in China.
Soo Lin: Every foot soldier bears the mark; everyone who hauls for them.
Watson:"Hauls"?
Watson:Y-you mean you were a smuggler?
Soo Lin: I was fifteen. My parents were d*ad. I had no livelihood; no way of surviving day to day except to work for the bosses.
Sherlock: Who are they?
Soo Lin: They are called the Black Lotus. By the time I was sixteen, I was taking thousands of pounds' worth of drugs across the border into Hong Kong. But I managed to leave that life behind me. I came to England.
Soo Lin: They gave me a job here. Everything was good; a new life.
Sherlock: Then he came looking for you.
Soo Lin: Yes.
Soo Lin: I had hoped after five years maybe they would have forgotten me, but they never really let you leave. A small community like ours –
they are never very far away.
Soo Lin: He came to my flat. He asked me to help him to track down something that was stolen.
Watson:And you've no idea what it was?
Soo Lin: I refused to help.
Watson:So you knew him well when you were living back in China?
Soo Lin: Oh yes.
Soo Lin: He's my brother.
Soo Lin: Two orphans. We had no choice. We could work for the Black Lotus, or starve on the streets like beggars.
Soo Lin: My brother has become their puppet, in the power of the one they call Shan – the Black Lotus general.
Soo Lin: I turned my brother away. He said I had betrayed him. Next day I came to work and the cipher was waiting.
Sherlock: Can you decipher these?
Soo Lin: These are numbers.
Sherlock: Yes, I know.
Soo Lin: Here: the line across the man's eyes – it's the Chinese number one.
Sherlock: And this one is fifteen. But what's the code?
Soo Lin: All the smugglers know it. It's based upon a book...
Soo Lin: He's here. Zhi Zhu. He has found me.
Watson:Sh-Sherlock. Sherlock, wait!
Watson:Come here.
Watson:Get in. Get in!
Watson:I have to go and help. Bolt the door after me.
Sherlock: Careful!
Sherlock: Some of those skulls are over two hundred thousand years old! Have a bit of respect!
Sherlock: Thank you!
Soo Lin: 亮
Soo Lin: 大哥
Soo Lin: 请你
Watson:Oh my God.
Watson:How many m*rder is it gonna take before you start believing that this maniac's out there?
Watson:A young girl was g*n down tonight. That's three victims in three days. You're supposed to be finding him.
Sherlock: Brian Lukis and Eddie Van co*n were working for a g*ng of international smugglers – a g*ng called the Black Lotus operating here in London right under your nose.
Dimmock: Can you prove that?
Sherlock: What are you thinking: pork or the pasta?
Molly: Oh, it's you!
Sherlock: This place is never going to trouble Egon Ronay, is it?
Sherlock: I'd stick with the pasta. Don't wanna be doing roast pork – not if you're slicing up cadavers.
Molly: What are you having?
Sherlock: Don't eat when I'm working. Digesting slows me down.
Molly: So you're working here tonight?
Sherlock: Need to examine some bodies.
Molly: "Some"?
Sherlock: Eddie Van co*n and Brian Lukis.
Molly: They're on my list.
Sherlock: Could you wheel them out again for me?
Molly: Well... the paperwork's already gone through.
Sherlock: You've... changed your hair.
Molly: What?
Sherlock: The-the style. It's usually parted in the middle.
Molly: Yes, well...
Sherlock: Mmm, it's good; it, um, suits you better this way.
Sherlock: We're just interested in the feet.
Molly: The feet?
Sherlock: Yes. D'you mind if we have a look at them?
Sherlock: Now Van co*n.
Sherlock: Oh!
Dimmock: So...
Sherlock: So either these two men just happened to visit the same Chinese tattoo parlour or I'm telling the truth.
Dimmock: What do you want?
Sherlock: I want every book from Lukis' apartment and Van co*n's.
Dimmock: Their books?
Sherlock: Not just a criminal organisation; it's a cult. Her brother was corrupted by one of its leaders.
Watson:Soo Lin said the name.
Sherlock: Yes, Shan; General Shan.
Watson:We're still no closer to finding them.
Sherlock: Wrong. We've got almost all we need to know. She gave us most of the missing pieces.
Sherlock: Why did he need to visit his sister? Why did he need her expertise?
Watson:She worked at the museum.
Sherlock: Exactly.
Watson:An expert in antiquities. Mmm, of course. I see.
Sherlock: Valuable antiquities, John. Ancient Chinese relics purchased on the black market. China's home to a thousand treasures hidden after Mao's revolution.
Watson:And the Black Lotus is selling them.
Sherlock: Check for the dates...
Sherlock: Here, John.
Watson:Mmm.
Sherlock: "Arrived from China four days ago."
Sherlock: Anonymous. Vendor doesn't give his name. "Two undiscovered treasures from the East."
Watson:One in Lukis' suitcase and one in Van co*n's.
Sherlock: ..antiquities sold at auction.
Sherlock: Look, here's another one.
Watson:Mmm.
Sherlock: Arrived from China a month ago, Chinese ceramic statue, sold four hundred thousand.
Watson:Ah, look, a month before that – a Chinese painting, half a million.
Sherlock: All of them from an anonymous source. They're stealing them back in China and one by one they're feeding them into Britain.
Watson:Huh.
Watson:And every single auction coincides with Lukis or Van co*n travelling to China.
Sherlock: So what if one of them got greedy when they were in China?
What if one of them stole something?
Watson:That's why Zhi Zhu's come.
Mrs Hudson: Ooh-ooh!
Mrs Hudson: Sorry. Are we collecting for charity, Sherlock?
Sherlock: What?
Mrs Hudson: A young man's outside with crates of books.
Sherlock: So, the numbers are references.
Watson:To books.
Sherlock: To specific pages and specific words on those pages.
Watson:Right, so... fifteen and one: that means...
Sherlock: Turn to page fifteen and it's the first word you read.
Watson:Okay. So what's the message?
Sherlock: Depends on the book. That's the cunning of the book code. Has to be one that they both owned.
Watson:Okay, right. Well, this shouldn't take too long, should it?!
Dimmock: We found these, at the museum.
Dimmock: Is this your writing?
Watson:Uh, we hoped Soo Lin could decipher it for us. Ta.
Dimmock: Anything else I can do? To assist you, I mean?
Sherlock: Some silence right now would be marvellous.
Sherlock: "Cigarette."
Watson:Ah.
Sherlock: "Imagine."
Receptionist: I'm sorry to keep you waiting.
Receptionist: But we haven't got anything now 'til next Thursday.
Woman's voice: This is taking ages.
Receptionist: Er, sorry.
Woman's voice: What's the point of making an appointment if they can't even stick to it?
Sarah: Um, what's going on?
Receptionist: That new doctor you hired – he hasn't buzzed the intercom for ages.
Sarah: Let me go and have a word.
Receptionist: Yeah, thanks.
Sarah: 'Scuse me.
Receptionist: Sorry.
Woman's voice: What did she just say?
Sarah: John?
Sarah: John?
Watson:Um, looks like I'm done. I thought I had some more to see.
Sarah: Oh, I did one or two of yours.
Watson:One or two?
Sarah: Well, maybe five or six.
Watson:I'm sorry. That's not very professional.
Sarah: No. No, not really.
Watson:I had, um, a bit of a late one.
Sarah: Oh, right.
Watson:Anyway, see you.
Sarah: So, um, what were you doing to keep you up so late?
Watson:Uh, I was, er, attending a sort of book event.
Sarah: Oh. Oh, she likes books, does she, your... your girlfriend?
Watson:Mmm? No, it wasn't a date.
Sarah: Good. I mean, um...
Watson:And I don't have one tonight.
Sherlock: A book that everybody would own.
Sherlock: Fifteen. Entry one.
Sherlock: I need to get some air. We're going out tonight.
Watson:Actually, I've, er, got a date.
Sherlock: What?
Watson:It's where two people who like each other go out and have fun.
Sherlock: That's what I was suggesting.
Watson:No it wasn't... at least I hope not.
Sherlock: Where are you taking her?
Watson:Er, cinema.
Sherlock: Oh, dull, boring, predictable.
Sherlock: Why don't you try this?
Sherlock: In London for one night only.
Watson: Thanks, but I don't come to you for dating advice.
Sarah: It's years since anyone took me to the circus.
Watson:Right, yes! Well, it's... a friend recommended it to me. He phoned up.
Sarah: Ah. What are they, a touring company or something?
Watson:I don't know much about it.
Sarah: I think they're probably from China!
Watson:Yes, I think... I think so, yes. There's a coincidence!
Customer: That's wonderful. Thank you very much.
Manager: Okay.
Watson:Hi. I have, er, two tickets reserved for tonight.
Manager: And what's the name?
Watson:Er, Holmes.
Manager: Actually, I have three in that name.
Watson:No, I don't think so. We only booked two.
Sherlock: And then I phoned back and got one for myself as well.
Sherlock: I'm Sherlock.
Sarah: Er, hi.
Sherlock: Hello.
Watson:You couldn't let me have just one night off?
Sherlock: Yellow Dragon Circus, in London for one day. It fits. The Tong sent an assassin to England...
Watson:..dressed as a tightrope walker. Come on, Sherlock, behave!
Sherlock: We're looking for a k*ller who can climb, who can shin up a rope. Where else would you find that level of dexterity? Exit visas are scarce in China. They need a pretty good reason to get out of that country. Now, all I need to do is have a quick look round the place...
Watson:Fine. You do that; I'm gonna take Sarah for a pint.
Sherlock: I need your help.
Watson:I do have a couple of other things on my mind this evening!
Sherlock: Like what?
Watson:You are kidding.
Sherlock: What's so important?
Watson:Sherlock, I'm right in the middle of a date. D'you want me to chase some k*ller while I'm trying to...
Sherlock: What?
Watson:..while I'm trying to get off with Sarah!
Watson:Heyyy.
Watson:Ready?
Sarah: Yeah!
Watson:You said circus. This is not a circus. Look at the size of this crowd. Sherlock, this is... art.
Sherlock: This is not their day job.
Watson:No, sorry, I forgot. They're not a circus; they're a g*ng of international smugglers.
Sherlock: Classic Chinese escapology act.
Watson:Hmm?
Sherlock: The crossbow's on a delicate string. The warrior has to escape his bonds before it fires.
Sarah: Oh, Gawd! I'm sorry!
Sherlock: She splits the sandbag, the sand pours out, gradually the weight lowers into the bowl.
Sarah: Thank God.
Watson:My God!
Opera Singer: Ladies and gentlemen, from the distant moonlight shores of the Yangtze River, we present for your pleasure the deadly Chinese bird-spider.
Watson:Did you see that?!
Sherlock: Well, well.
Sherlock: Found you.
Watson:Come on.
Sherlock: Come on! Let's go!
Dimmock: I sent a couple of cars. The old hall is totally deserted.
Sherlock: Look, I saw the mark at the circus – that tattoo that we saw on the two bodies: the mark of the Tong.
Watson:Lukis and Van co*n were part of a-a smuggling operation. Now, one of them stole something when they were in China; something valuable.
Sherlock: These circus performers were g*ng members sent here to get it back.
Dimmock: Get what back?
Watson:We don't know.
Dimmock: You don't know.
Dimmock: Mr. Holmes...
Dimmock: I've done everything you asked. Lestrade, he seems to think your advice is worth something.
Dimmock: I gave the order for a raid. Please tell me I'll have something to show for it – other than a massive bill for overtime.
Watson:They'll be back in China by tomorrow.
Sherlock: No, they won't leave without what they came for. We need to find their hide-out, the rendezvous.
Sherlock: Somewhere in this message it must tell us.
Sarah: Well, I think perhaps I should leave you to it.
Watson:No, no, you don't have to go... does she? You can stay.
Sherlock: Yes, it would be better to study if you left now.
Watson:He's kidding. Please stay if you'd like.
Sarah: Is it just me, or is anyone else starving?
Sherlock: Ooh, God.
Sarah: So this is what you do, you and John. You solve puzzles for a living.
Sherlock: Consulting detective.
Sarah: Oh.
Watson:Oh!
Sarah: What are these squiggles?
Sherlock: They're numbers. An ancient Chinese dialect.
Sarah: Oh, right! Yeah, well, of course I should have known that!
Mrs Hudson: Ooh-ooh!
Mrs Hudson:  I've done punch, and a bowl of nibbles.
Watson:Mrs Hudson, you're a saint!
Mrs Hudson: If it was Monday, I'd have been to the supermarket!
Watson:No; thank you! Thank you!
Sarah: So these numbers, it's a cipher.
Sherlock: Exactly.
Sarah: And each pair of numbers is a word.
Sherlock: How did you know that?
Sarah: Well, two words have already been translated, here.
Sherlock: John.
Watson:Mmm?
Sherlock: John, look at this.
Sherlock: Soo Lin at the museum – she started to translate the code for us. We didn't see it!
Sherlock: "NINE" "MILL".
Watson:Does that mean millions?
Sherlock: Nine million quid. For what?
Sherlock: We need to know the end of this sentence.
Watson:Where are you going?
Sherlock: To the museum; to the restoration room.
Sherlock: Oh, we must have been staring right at it!
Watson:At-at what?
Sherlock: The book, John. The book – the key to cracking the cipher!
Sherlock: Soo Lin used it to do this! Whilst we were running around the gallery, she started to translate the code. It must be on her desk.
Sherlock: Taxi!
Tourist: Hey, du! Siehst du nicht wo du hingehst?
Sherlock: Entschuldigen Sie, bitte.
Tourist: Ja, danke!
Tourist: Und dann sagen die, dass die Engländer höflich sind!
Sherlock: A book that everybody would own.
Sherlock: Please, wait! Bitte!
Male Tourist: Was wollt er? Was will er?
Tourist: Hey, du! Was macht du?
Sherlock: Minute!
Tourist: Gib mir doch mein Buch zurück!
Sarah: Yeah! No, absolutely. I mean, well, a quiet night in's just-just what the doctor ordered.
Watson:Ha-ha-ha!
Sarah: Er, I mean, I'd love to go out of an evening and wrestle a few Chinese gangsters, you know, generally, but a girl can get too much.
Watson:No, okay.
Watson:Hmm. Um, shall we get a takeaway?
Sarah: Yeah!
On the street, Sherlock is flicking through the pages of the A-Z.
Sherlock: Page fifteen, entry one. Page fifteen, entry one...
Sherlock: d*ad man. You were thr*at to k*ll them.
Sherlock: It's the first cipher.
Sherlock: Thirty-seven, nine; thirty-seven, nine...
Sherlock: Nine mill... for...
Watson:Ooh, blimey, that was quick. I'll just pop down.
Sarah: Do you want me to lay the table?
Watson:Um, eat off trays?
Sarah: Yeah.
Watson:Yeah!
Sherlock: Sixty, thirty-five.
Sherlock: Jade. Jade.
Watson:Sorry to keep you. How much d'you want?
Chinese Man: Do you have it?
Watson:What?
Chinese Man: Do you have the treasure?
Watson:I don't understand.
Sherlock:  "NINE MILL FOR JADE PIN DRAGON DEN BLACK... TRAMWAY."
Sherlock: John! John! I've got it!
Sherlock: The cipher! The book! It's the London A to Z that they're using...
Opera Singer: "A book is like a magic garden carried in your pocket."
Opera Singer: Chinese proverb, Mr. Holmes.
Watson:I... I'm not Sherlock Holmes.
Opera Singer: Forgive me if I do not take your word for it.
Watson:Ow. Ow.
Opera Singer: Debit card, name of S. Holmes.
Sherlock: Take my card.
Watson:Yes; that's not actually mine. He lent that to me.
Opera Singer: A cheque for five thousand pounds made out in the name of Mr. Sherlock Holmes.
Watson:Yeah, he gave me that to look after.
Opera Singer: Tickets from the theatre, collected by you, name of Holmes.
Watson:Yes, okay...
Manager: What's the name?
Watson:Uh, Holmes.
Watson:I realise what this looks like, but I'm not him.
Opera Singer: We heard it from your own mouth.
Watson:What?
Opera Singer: "I am Sherlock Holmes and I always work alone..."
Watson:"... because no-one else can compete with my MASSIVE INTELLECT!"
Watson:Did I really say that?
Watson:I s'ppose there's no use me trying to persuade you I was doing an impression.
Opera Singer: I am Shan.
Watson:You're... you're Shan.
Opera singer/Shan: Three times we tried to k*ll you and your companion, Mr. Holmes. What does it tell you when an assassin cannot sh**t straight?
Shan: It tells you that they're not really trying.
Sherlock: Tramway.
Sherlock: Oh, Christ.
Sherlock: There.
Shan: Not blank b*ll*ts now.
Watson:Okay.
Shan: If we wanted to k*ll you, Mr. Holmes, we would have done it by now. We just wanted to make you inquisitive.
Shan: Do you have it?
Watson:Do I have what?
Shan: The treasure.
Watson:I don't know what you're talking about.
Shan: I would prefer to make certain.
Shan: Everything in the West has its price; and the price for her life...
Shan: ..information.
Watson: Sorry. I'm sorry.
Shan: Where's the hairpin?
Watson:What?
Shan: The Empress pin valued at nine million sterling. We already had a buyer in the West; and then one of our people was greedy. He took it, brought it back to London and you, Mr. Holmes, have been searching.
Watson:Please. Please, listen to me. I'm not... I'm not Sherlock Holmes. You have to believe me. I haven't found whatever it is you're looking for.
Shan: I need a volunteer from the audience!
Watson:No, please. Please.
Shan: Ah, thank you, lady. Yes, you'll do very nicely.
Shan: Ladies and gentlemen. From the distant moonlit shores of NW1, we present for your pleasure Sherlock Holmes' pretty companion in a death-defying act.
Watson:Please!
Shan: You've seen the act before. How dull for you. You know how it ends.
Watson:I'm not Sherlock Holmes!
Shan: I don't believe you.
Sherlock: You should, you know.
Sherlock: Sherlock Holmes is nothing at all like him.
Sherlock's voice: How would you describe me, John? Resourceful? Dynamic? Enigmatic?
Watson:Late?
Sherlock's voice: That's a semi-a*t*matic. If you f*re it, the b*llet will travel at over a thousand metres per second.
Shan: Well?
Sherlock's voice: Well...
Sherlock's voice: ..the radius curvature of these walls is nearly four metres. If you miss, the b*llet will ricochet. Could h*t anyone. Might even bounce off the tunnel and h*t you.
Sherlock: It's all right.
Sherlock: You're gonna be all right. It's over now. It's over.
Watson:Don't worry. Next date won't be like this.
Sherlock: We'll just slip off. No need to mention us in your report.
Dimmock: Mr. Holmes...
Sherlock: I have high hopes for you, Inspector. A glittering career.
Dimmock: I go where you point me.
Sherlock: Exactly.
Watson:Ta.
Watson:So, "Nine mill"...
Sherlock: Million.
Watson:Million, yes; "Nine million for jade pin. Dragon den, black Tramway."
Sherlock: An instruction to all their London operatives.
Watson:Mmm.
Sherlock: A message; what they were trying to reclaim.
Watson:What, a jade pin?
Sherlock: Worth nine million pounds. Bring it to the Tramway, their London hideout.
Watson:Hang on: a hairpin worth nine million pounds?
Sherlock: Apparently.
Watson:Why so much?
Sherlock: Depends who owned it.
Sherlock: Two operatives based in London. They travel over to Dalian to smuggle those vases. One of them helps himself to something: a little hairpin.
Watson:Worth nine million pounds.
Sherlock: Eddie Van co*n was the thief. He stole the treasure when he was in China.
Watson:How d'you know it was Van co*n, not Lukis? Even the k*ller didn't know that.
Sherlock: Because of the soap.
Amanda: Amanda.
Sherlock's voice: He bought you a present.
Amanda: Oh. Hello.
Sherlock's voice: A little gift when he came back from China.
Amanda: How do you know that?
Sherlock: You weren't just his P.A., were you?
Amanda: Someone's been gossiping.
Sherlock: No.
Amanda: Then I don't understand. Why...?
Sherlock: Scented hand soap in his apartment.
Sherlock: Three hundred millilitres of it. Bottle almost finished.
Amanda: Sorry?
Sherlock: I don't think Eddie Van co*n was the type of chap to buy himself hand soap – not unless he had a lady coming over. And it's the same brand as that hand cream there on your desk.
Amanda: Look, it wasn't serious between us. It was over in a flash. It couldn't last – he was my boss.
Sherlock: What happened? Why did you end it?
Amanda: I thought he didn't appreciate me. Took me for granted. Stood me up once too often – we'd plan to go away for the weekend and then he'd just leave; fly off to China at a moment's notice.
Sherlock: And he brought you a present from abroad to say sorry.
Sherlock: Can I... just have a look at it?
Sebastian: He really climbed up onto the balcony?
Watson:Nail a plank across the window and all your problems are over.
Watson:Thanks.
Amanda: Said he bought it in a street market.
Sherlock: Oh, I don't think that's true. I think he pinched it.
Amanda: Yeah, that's Eddie.
Sherlock: Didn't know its value; just thought it would suit you.
Amanda: Oh? What's it worth?
Sherlock: Nine... million... pounds.
Amanda: Oh my God!
Amanda: Oh my G...
Amanda: Nine million!
Watson:Over a thousand years old and it's sitting on her bedside table every night.
Sherlock: He didn't know its value; didn't know why they were chasing him.
Watson:Hmm. Should've just got her a lucky cat.
Sherlock: Hmm.
Watson:You mind, don't you?
Sherlock: What?
Watson:That she escaped – General Shan. It's not enough that we got her two henchmen.
Sherlock: It must be a vast network, John. Thousands of operatives. You and I, we barely scratched the surface.
Watson:You cracked the code though Sherlock, and maybe Dimmock can track down all of them now that he knows it.
Sherlock: No. No. I cracked this code; all the smugglers have to do is pick up another book.
Shan: Without you – without your assistance – we would not have found passage into London. You have my thanks.
Shan: We did not anticipate... we did not know this man would come – this Sherlock Holmes.
Shan: And now your safety is compromised.
Shan: I will not reveal your identity.
Sherlock: Just tell me what happened, from the beginning.
Berwick: We'd been to a bar – a nice place – and, er, I got chattin' with one of the waitresses, and Karen weren't 'appy with that, so... when we get back to the 'otel, we end up havin' a bit of a ding-dong, don't we?
Berwick:  She was always gettin' at me, sayin' I weren't a real man.
Sherlock: Wasn't a real man.
Berwick: What?
Sherlock: It's not "weren't", it's "wasn't".
Berwick: Oh.
Sherlock: Go on.
Berwick: Well, then I dunno how it happened, but suddenly there's a Kn*fe in my hands. And, you know, me old man was a butcher, so I know how to handle knives.
Berwick: He learned us how to cut up a beast.
Sherlock: Taught.
Berwick: What?
Sherlock: Taught you how to cut up a beast.
Berwick: Yeah, well, then-then I done it.
Sherlock: Did it.
Berwick:  Did it! s*ab her... over and over and over, and I looked down and she weren't...
Berwick: ..wasn't movin' no more.
Berwick: ..any more.
Berwick: You've gotta help me. I dunno how it happened, but it was an accident. I swear.
Berwick: You've gotta help me, Mr. Holmes!
Berwick: Everyone says you're the best. Without you, I'll get hung for this.
Sherlock: No, no, no, Mr. Berwick, not at all.
Sherlock: Hanged, yes.
Sherlock
Season 1 Episode 3
The Great Game
Original air date on August 8, 2010
Watson:What the hell are you doing?
Sherlock: Bored.
Watson:What?
Sherlock: Bored!
Watson:No...
Sherlock: Bored! Bored!
Sherlock: Don't know what's got into the criminal classes. Good job I'm not one of them.
Watson:So you take it out on the wall.
Sherlock: Ah, the wall had it coming.
Watson:What about that Russian case?
Sherlock: Belarus. Open and shut domestic m*rder. Not worth my time.
Watson:Ah, shame!
Watson:Anything in? I'm starving.
Watson:Oh, f...
Watson: It's a head.
Watson:A severed head!
Sherlock: Just tea for me, thanks.
Watson:No, there's a head in the fridge.
Sherlock: Yes.
Watson:A bloody head!
Sherlock: Well, where else was I supposed to put it?
Sherlock: You don't mind, do you?
Sherlock: I got it from Bart's morgue.
Sherlock: I'm measuring the coagulation of saliva after death.
Sherlock: I see you've written up the taxi driver case.
Watson:Er... yes.
Sherlock: "A Study in Pink." Nice!
Watson:Well, you know, pink lady, pink case, pink phone. There was a lot of pink. Did you like it?
Sherlock: Um... no.
Watson:Why not? I thought you'd be flattered.
Sherlock: Flattered? "Sherlock sees through everything and everyone in seconds. What's incredible, though, is how spectacularly ignorant he is about some things."
Watson:Now hang on a minute. I didn't mean that in a...
Sherlock: Oh, you meant "spectacularly ignorant" in a nice way! Look, it doesn't matter to me who's Prime Minister...
Watson:I know...
Sherlock: ..or who's sleeping with who...
Watson:Whether the Earth goes round the Sun...
Sherlock: Not that again. It's not important.
Watson:Not impor...?!
Watson:It's primary school stuff. How can you not know that?
Sherlock: Well, if I ever did, I've deleted it.
Watson:"Deleted it"?
Sherlock: Listen. This is my hard drive, and it only makes sense to put things in there that are useful... really useful.
Sherlock: Ordinary people fill their heads with all kinds of rubbish, and that makes it hard to get at the stuff that matters. Do you see?
Watson:But it's the solar system!
Sherlock: Oh, hell! What does that matter?!
Sherlock: So we go round the Sun! If we went round the Moon, or round and round the garden like a teddy bear, it wouldn't make any difference. All that matters to me is the work. Without that, my brain rots.
Sherlock: Put that in your blog. Or better still, stop inflicting your opinions on the world!
Sherlock: Where are you going?
Watson:Out. I need some air.
Watson:'Scuse me, Mrs...
Mrs Hudson: Oh, sorry, love!
Watson:Sorry.
Mrs Hudson: Ooh-ooh!
Mrs Hudson: Have you two had a little domestic?
Mrs Hudson: Ooh, it's a bit nippy out there. He should have wrapped himself up a bit more.
Sherlock: Look at that, Mrs Hudson. Quiet, calm, peaceful.  Isn't it hateful?
Mrs Hudson: Oh, I'm sure something'll turn up, Sherlock. A nice m*rder – that'll cheer you up.
Sherlock: Can't come too soon.
Mrs Hudson: Hey. What've you done to my bloody wall?!
Mrs Hudson: I'm putting this on your rent, young man!
Sarah: Morning!
Watson:Oh, mor... Morning.
Sarah: See? Told you you should've gone with the lilo.
Watson:No, no, no, it's fine. I-I slept fine.
It's very kind of you.
Sarah: Well, maybe next time I'll let you kip at the end of my bed, you know.
Watson:What about the time after that?
Newsreader: Experts are hailing it as the artistic find of the century.
Newsreader: The last time...
Sarah: So, d'you want some breakfast?
Watson:Love some.
Sarah: Yeah, well you'd better make it yourself, 'cause I'm gonna have a shower!
Newsreader: ..it fetched over twenty million pounds.
Newsreader: This one is anticipated to do even better. Back now to our main story. There's been a massive expl*si*n in central London.
Newsreader: As yet, there are no reports of any casualties, and the police are unable to say if there is any suspicion of t*rror1st involvement.
Watson:Sarah!
Newsreader: Police have issued an emergency number...
Watson:Sarah!
Newsreader: ..for friends and relatives...
Watson:Sorry! I've got to run!
Watson:'Scuse me, can I get through? 'Scuse me.
Watson:Can I go through?
Watson:I live over there.
Watson:Sherlock. Sherlock!
Sherlock: John.
Watson:I saw it on the telly. Are you okay?
Sherlock: Hmm? What? Oh, yeah. Fine. Gas leak, apparently.
Sherlock: I can't.
Mycroft: "Can't"?
Sherlock: The stuff I've got on is just too big. I can't spare the time.
Mycroft: Never mind your usual trivia. This is of national importance.
Sherlock: How's the diet?
Mycroft: Fine. Perhaps you can get through to him, John.
Watson:What?
Mycroft: I'm afraid my brother can be very intransigent.
Sherlock: If you're so keen, why don't you investigate it?
Mycroft: No, no, no, no, no. I can't possibly be away from the office for any length of time – not with the Korean elections so...
Mycroft: Well, you don't need to know about that, do you?
Mycroft: Besides, a case like this – it requires... legwork.
Sherlock: How's Sarah, John? How was the lilo?
Mycroft: Sofa, Sherlock. It was the sofa.
Sherlock: Oh yes, of course.
Watson:How...? Oh, never mind.
Mycroft: Sherlock's business seems to be booming since you and he became... pals.
Mycroft: What's he like to live with? Hellish, I imagine.
Watson:I'm never bored.
Mycroft: Good! That's good, isn't it?
Mycroft: Andrew West, known as Westie to his friends.
Mycroft: A civil servant, found d*ad on the tracks at Battersea Station this morning with his head smashed in.
Watson:Jumped in front of a train?
Mycroft: Seems the logical assumption.
Watson:But...?
Mycroft: "But"?
Watson:Well, you wouldn't be here if it was just an accident.
Mycroft: The MoD is working on a new m*ssile defence system, the Bruce-Partington Program, it's called.
Mycroft: The plans for it were on a memory stick.
Watson: That wasn't very clever.
Mycroft: It's not the only copy.
Watson:Oh.
Mycroft: But it is secret. And missing.
Watson:Top secret?
Mycroft: Very. We think West must have taken the memory stick. We can't possibly risk it falling into the wrong hands.
Mycroft: You've got to find those plans, Sherlock. Don't make me order you.
Sherlock: I'd like to see you try.
Mycroft: Think it over.
Mycroft: Goodbye, John.
Mycroft: See you very soon.
Watson:Why'd you lie?
Watson:You've got nothing on – not a single case. That's why the wall took a pounding. Why did you tell your brother you were busy?
Sherlock: Why shouldn't I?
Watson:Oh! Oh, I see.
Watson:Sibling rivalry. Now we're getting somewhere.
Sherlock: Sherlock Holmes.
Sherlock: Of course. How could I refuse?
Sherlock: Lestrade. I've been summoned. Coming?
Watson:If you want me to.
Sherlock: Of course.
Sherlock: I'd be lost without my blogger.
Lestrade: You like the funny cases, don't you? The surprising ones.
Sherlock: Obviously.
Lestrade: You've love this. That expl*si*n...
Sherlock: Gas leak, yes?
Lestrade: No.
Sherlock: No?
Lestrade: No. Made to look like one.
Watson:What?
Lestrade: Hardly anything left of the place except a strong box – a very strong box and inside it was this.
Sherlock: You haven't opened it?
Lestrade: It's addressed to you, isn't it?
Lestrade: We've X-rayed it. It's not booby-trapped.
Sherlock: How reassuring!
Sherlock: Nice stationery. Bohemian.
Lestrade: What?
Sherlock: From the Czech Republic. No fingerprints?
Lestrade: No.
Sherlock: She used a fountain pen. A Parker Duofold, iridium nib.
Watson:"She"?
Sherlock: Obviously.
Watson:Obviously!
Watson:But that... That's the phone. The pink phone.
Lestrade: What, from the Study in Pink?
Sherlock: Well, obviously it's not the same phone but it's supposed to look like...
Sherlock: The Study in Pink? You read his blog?
Lestrade: Course I read his blog! We all do. D'you really not know that the Earth goes round the Sun?
Sherlock: It isn't the same phone. This one's brand new.
Sherlock: Someone's gone to a lot of trouble to make it look like the same phone, which means your blog has a far wider readership.
Voice Alert: You have one new message.
Watson:Is that it?
Sherlock: No. That's not it.
Lestrade: What the hell are we supposed to make of that? An estate agent's photo and the bloody Greenwich pips!
Sherlock: It's a warning.
Watson:A warning?
Sherlock: Some secret societies used to send dried melon seeds, orange pips, things like that. Five pips. They're warning us it's gonna happen again.
Sherlock: And I've seen this place before.
Watson:H-hang on. What's gonna happen again?
Sherlock: Boom!
Sherlock: Mrs Hudson!
Mrs Hudson: You had a look, didn't you, Sherlock, when you first came to see about your flat.
Sherlock: The door's been opened recently.
Mrs Hudson: No, can't be. That's the only key.
Mrs Hudson: I can't get anyone interested in this flat. It's the damp, I expect. That's the curse of basements.
Mrs Hudson: I had a place once when I was first married. Black mould all up the walls...
Mrs Hudson: Oh! Men!
Watson:Shoes.
Watson:He's a b*mb, remember.
Hello.
Sherlock: Hello?
Woman's voice: H-hello... sexy.
Sherlock: Who's this?
Woman's voice: I've... sent you... a little puzzle... just to say hi.
Sherlock: Who's talking? Why are you crying?
Woman's voice: I-I'm not... crying... I'm typing...
Woman: ..and this... stupid... bitch... is reading it out.
Sherlock: The curtain rises.
Watson:What?
Sherlock: Nothing.
Watson:No, what did you mean?
Sherlock: I've been expecting this for some time.
Woman: Twelve hours to solve... my puzzle, Sherlock...
Woman: ..or I'm going... to be... so naughty.
Watson:So, who d'you suppose it was?
Sherlock: Hmm?
Watson:The woman on the phone – the crying woman.
Sherlock: Oh, she doesn't matter. She's just a hostage. No lead there.
Watson:For God's sake, I wasn't thinking about leads.
Sherlock: You're not going to be much use to her.
Watson:Are-are they trying to trace it, trace the call?
Sherlock: The b*mb's too smart for that.
Sherlock: Pass me my phone.
Watson:Where is it?
Sherlock: Jacket.
Sherlock: Careful.
Watson:Text from your brother.
Sherlock: Delete it.
Watson:Delete it?
Sherlock: m*ssile plans are out of the country now. Nothing we can do about it.
Watson:Well, Mycroft thinks there is. He's texted you eight times. Must be important.
Sherlock: Then why didn't he cancel his dental appointment?
Watson:His what?
Sherlock: Mycroft never texts if he can talk. Look, Andrew West stole the m*ssile plans, tried to sell them, got his head smashed in for his pains. End of story. The only mystery is this: why is my brother so determined to bore me when somebody else is being so delightfully interesting?
Watson:Try and remember there's a woman here who might die.
Sherlock: What for?
Sherlock: This hospital's full of people dying, Doctor. Why don't you go and cry by their bedside and see what good it does them?
Sherlock: Ah!
Molly: Any luck?
Sherlock: Oh, yes!
Moriarty: Oh, sorry. I didn't...
Molly: Jim! Hi!
Molly: Come in! Come in!
Molly: Jim, this is Sherlock Holmes.
Moriarty: Ah!
Molly: And, uh... sorry.
Watson:John Watson. Hi.
Moriarty: Hi.
Moriarty: So you're Sherlock Holmes. Molly's told me all about you. You on one of your cases?
Molly: Jim works in I.T. upstairs. That's how we met. Office romance.
Sherlock: Gay.
Molly: Sorry, what?
Sherlock: Nothing. Um, hey.
Moriarty: Hi.
Moriarty: Sorry. Sorry!
Moriarty: Well, I'd better be off. I'll see you at the Fox, 'bout six-ish?
Molly: Yeah!
Moriarty: 'Bye.
Molly: 'Bye.
Moriarty: It was nice to meet you.
Watson:You too.
Molly: What d'you mean, gay? We're together.
Sherlock: And domestic bliss must suit you, Molly. You've put on three pounds since I last saw you.
Molly: Two and a half.
Sherlock: Nuh, three.
Watson:Sherlock...
Molly: He's not gay. Why d'you have to spoil...? He's not.
Sherlock: With that level of personal grooming?
Watson:Because he puts a bit of product in his hair? I put product in my hair.
Sherlock: You wash your hair. There's a difference. No-no – tinted eyelashes, clear signs of taurine cream around the frown lines. Those tired clubber's eyes. Then there's his underwear.
Molly: His underwear?
Sherlock: Visible above the waistline – very visible; very particular brand.
Sherlock: That, plus the extremely suggestive fact that he just left his number under this dish here... and I'd say you'd better break it off now and save yourself the pain.
Watson:Charming. Well done.
Sherlock: Just saving her time. Isn't that kinder?
Watson:"Kinder"? No, no, Sherlock. That wasn't kind.
Sherlock: Go on, then.
Watson:Mmm?
Sherlock: You know what I do. Off you go.
Watson:No.
Sherlock: Go on.
Watson:I'm not gonna stand here so you can humiliate me while I try and disseminate...
Sherlock: An outside eye, a second opinion. It's very useful to me.
Watson:Yeah, right!
Sherlock: Really.
Watson:Fine.
Watson:I dunno, they're just a pair of shoes. Trainers.
Sherlock: Good.
Watson:Umm... they're in good nick. I'd say they were pretty new... except the sole has been well-worn, so the owner must have had them for a while.
Watson:Uh, they're very eighties – probably one of those retro designs.
Sherlock: You're on sparkling form. What else?
Watson:Well, they're quite big, so a man's.
Sherlock: But...?
Watson:But there's traces of a name inside in felt-tip. Adults don't write their names inside their shoes, so these belonged to a kid.
Sherlock: Excellent. What else?
Watson:Uh... that's it.
Sherlock: That's it?
Watson:How did I do?
Sherlock: Well, John; really well.
Sherlock: I mean, you missed almost everything of importance, but, um, you know...
Sherlock: The owner loved these. Scrubbed them clean, whitened them where they got discoloured. Changed the laces three... no, four times.
Sherlock: Even so, there are traces of his flaky skin where his fingers have come into contact with them, so he suffered from eczema. Shoes are well-worn, more so on the inside, which means the owner had weak arches.
British-made, twenty years old.
Watson:Twenty years?
Sherlock: They're not retro, they're original.
Sherlock: Limited edition - two blue stripes, nineteen eighty-nine.
Watson:But there's still mud on them. They look new.
Sherlock: Someone's kept them that way. Quite a bit of mud caked on the soles. Analysis shows it's from Sussex, with London mud overlaying it.
Watson:How do you know?
Sherlock: Pollen. Clear as a map reference to me.
Sherlock: South of the river, too. So, the kid who owned these trainers came to London from Sussex twenty years ago and left them behind.
Watson:So what happened to him?
Sherlock: Something bad.
Sherlock: He loved those shoes, remember. He'd never leave them filthy. Wouldn't leave them go unless he had to. So, a child with big feet gets...
Sherlock: Oh.
Watson:What?
Sherlock: Carl Powers.
Watson:Sorry, who?
Sherlock: Carl Powers, John.
Watson:What is it?
Sherlock: It's where I began.
Later, the boys are in the back of a taxi.
Sherlock: Nineteen eighty-nine, a young kid – champion swimmer – came up from Brighton for a school sports tournament; drowned in the pool. Tragic accident.
Sherlock: You wouldn't remember it. Why should you?
Watson:But you remember.
Sherlock: Yes.
Watson:Something fishy about it?
Sherlock: Nobody thought so – nobody except me. I was only a kid myself.
I read about it in the papers.
Watson:Started young, didn't you?
Sherlock: The boy, Carl Powers, had some kind of fit in the water, but by the time they got him out it was too late. But there was something wrong; something I couldn't get out of my head.
Watson:What?
Sherlock: His shoes.
Watson:What about them?
Sherlock: They weren't there. I made a fuss; I tried to get the police interested, but nobody seemed to think it was important. He'd left all the rest of his clothes in his locker, but there was no sign of his shoes...
Sherlock: ..until now.
Watson:Can I help?
Watson:I want to help. There's only five hours left.
Watson:It's your brother. He's texting me now.
Watson:How does he know my number?
Sherlock: Must be a root canal.
Watson:Look, he did say "national importance".
Sherlock: How quaint.
Watson:What is?
Sherlock: You are. Queen and country.
Watson:You can't just ignore it.
Sherlock: I'm not ignoring it. Putting my best man onto it right now.
Watson:Right. Good!
Watson:Who's that?
Mycroft: John. How nice. I was hoping you wouldn't be long.
Mycroft: How can I help you?
Watson:Thank you. Um, well, I was wanting to... um, your brother sent me to collect more facts about the stolen plans - the m*ssile plans.
Mycroft: Did he?
Watson:Yes.
Watson:He's investigating now.
Watson:He's, er, investigating away.
Watson:Um, I just wondered what else you can tell me about the d*ad man.
Mycroft: Uh, twenty-seven; a clerk at Vauxhall Cross – er, MI6. He was involved in the Bruce-Partington Programme in a minor capacity. Security checks A-OK; no known t*rror1st affiliations or sympathies...
Mycroft: Last seen by his fiancée at ten thirty yesterday evening.
Westie: Lucy, love, I've gotta go out. I've gotta see someone.
Lucy: Westie!
Watson:Right. He was found at Battersea, yes? So he got on the train.
Mycroft: No.
Watson:What?
Mycroft: He had an Oyster card...
Mycroft: ..but it hadn't been used.
Watson:Must have bought a ticket.
Mycroft: There was no ticket on the body.
Watson:Then...
Mycroft: Then how did he end up with a bashed-in brain on the tracks at Battersea? That is the question – the one I was rather hoping Sherlock would provide an answer to. How's he getting on?
Watson:He-he's fine, yes. Oh, and-and it is going... very well. It's, um, you know – he's completely focussed on it.
Sherlock: Poison.
Mrs Hudson: What you going on about?
Sherlock: Clostridium botulinum!
Sherlock: It's one of the deadliest poisons on the planet!
Sherlock: Carl Powers!
Watson:Oh, wait, are you saying he was m*rder?
Sherlock: Remember the shoelaces?
Watson:Mmm.
Sherlock: The boy suffered from eczema. It'd be the easiest thing in the world to introduce the poison into his medication. Two hours later he comes up to London, the poison takes effect, paralyses the muscles and he drowns.
Watson:What – how-how come the autopsy didn't pick that up?
Sherlock: It's virtually undetectable. Nobody would have been looking for it.
Sherlock: But there were still tiny traces of it left inside the trainers from where he put the cream on his feet.
Sherlock: That's why they had to go.
Watson:So how do we let the b*mb know...
Sherlock: Get his attention...
Watson:Mmm-hmm.
Sherlock: ..stop the clock.
Watson:The k*ller kept the shoes all these years.
Sherlock: Yes. Meaning...
Watson:He's our b*mb.
Woman: Well done, you. Come and get me.
Sherlock: Where are you? Tell us where you are.
Lestrade: She lives in Cornwall. Two men broke in wearing masks, forced her to drive to the car park and decked her out in enough expl*sives to take down a house.
Lestrade: Told her to phone you. She had to read out from this pager.
Sherlock: And if she deviated by one word, the sn*per would set her off.
Watson:Or if you hadn't solved the case.
Sherlock: Oh... Elegant!
Watson:"Elegant"?
Lestrade: But what was the point? Why would anyone do this?
Sherlock: Oh... I can't be the only person in the world that gets bored.
Voice Alert: You have one new message.
Watson:Four pips.
Sherlock: First test passed, it would seem. Here's the second.
Sherlock: It's abandoned, wouldn't you say?
Lestrade: I'll see if it's been reported.
Donovan: Freak, it's for you.
Sherlock: Hello?
Young Man: It's okay that you've gone to the police.
Sherlock: Who is this? Is this you again?
Young Man: But don't rely on them.
Young Man: Clever you, guessing about Carl Powers.
Young Man: I never liked him.
Young Man: Carl laughed at me, so I stopped him laughing.
Sherlock: And you've stolen another voice, I presume.
Young Man: This is about you and me.
Sherlock: Who are you?
Sherlock: What's that noise?
Young Man: The sounds of life, Sherlock.
Young Man: But don't worry...
Young Man: ..I can soon fix that.
Young Man: You solved my last puzzle in nine hours. This time you have eight.
Lestrade: Okay... Great.
Lestrade: We've found it.
Lestrade: The car was hired yesterday morning by an Ian Monkford. Banker of some kind; City boy. Paid in cash.
Lestrade: Told his wife he was going away on a business trip, but he never arrived.
Donovan: You're still hanging round him.
Watson:Yeah, well...
Donovan: Opposites attract, I suppose.
Watson:No, we're not...
Donovan: You should get yourself a hobby – stamps, maybe. Model trains.
Safer.
Lestrade: Before you ask, yes, it's Monkford's blood. The DNA checks out.
Sherlock: No body.
Donovan: Not yet.
Sherlock: Get a sample sent to the lab.
Sherlock: Mrs Monkford?
Mrs Monkford: Yes.
Mrs Monkford: Sorry, but I've already spoken with two policemen.
Watson:No, we're not from the police, we're...
Sherlock:  Sherlock Holmes. Very old friend of your husband's. We, um...
Sherlock: ..we grew up together.
Mrs Monkford: I'm sorry, who? I don't think he ever mentioned you.
Sherlock: Oh, he must have done. This is... this is horrible, isn't it?
Sherlock: I mean, I just can't believe it. I only saw him the other day. Same old Ian – not a care in the world.
Mrs Monkford: Sorry, but my husband has been depressed for months. Who are you?
Sherlock: Really strange that he hired a car. Why would he do that? It's a bit suspicious, isn't it?
Mrs Monkford: No, it isn't. He forgot to renew the tax on the car, that's all.
Sherlock: Oh, well, that was Ian! That was Ian all over!
Mrs Monkford: No it wasn't.
Sherlock:  Wasn't it? Interesting.
Mrs Monkford: Who was I talking to?
Watson:Why did you lie to her?
Sherlock: People don't like telling you things, but they love to contradict you. Past tense, did you notice?
Watson:Sorry, what?
Sherlock: I referred to her husband in the past tense. She joined in. Bit premature – they've only just found the car.
Watson:You think she m*rder her husband?
Sherlock: Definitely not. That's not a mistake a m*rder would make.
Watson:I see. No, I don't. What am I seeing?
Donovan: Fishing! Try fishing!
Watson:Where now?
Sherlock: Janus Cars.
Sherlock: Just found this in the glove compartment.
Ewert: Can't see how I can help you gentlemen.
Watson:Mr. Monkford hired the car from you yesterday.
Ewert: Yeah. Lovely motor. Mazda RX-8. Wouldn't mind one of them myself!
Sherlock: Is that one?
Ewert: No, they're all Jags. Yeah, I can see you're not a car man, eh?
Sherlock: But, er, surely you can afford one – a Mazda, I mean?
Ewert: Yeah, it's a fair point. But you know how it is: it's like working in a sweetshop. Once you start picking at the liquorice allsorts, when does it all stop, eh?
Watson:But you didn't know Mr. Monkford?
Ewert: No, he was just a client. Came in here and hired one of my cars. No idea what happened to him. Poor sod!
Sherlock: Nice holiday, Mr. Ewert?
Ewert: Eh?
Sherlock: You've been away, haven't you?
Ewert: Oh, the-the...
Ewert: No, it's, er, sunbeds, I'm afraid, yeah. Too busy to get away. My wife would love it, though – bit of sun.
Sherlock: Have you got any change for the cigarette machine?
Ewert: What?
Sherlock: Well, I noticed one on the way in and I haven't got any change.
Sherlock: I'm gasping.
Ewert: Um, well...
Ewert: Hmm.
Ewert: No, sorry.
Sherlock: Oh well. Thank you very much for your time, Mr. Ewert.
Sherlock: You've been very helpful. Come on, John.
Watson:I-I've got change if you still want to, uh...
Sherlock: Nicotine patches, remember? I'm doing well.
Watson:So what was that all about?
Sherlock: I needed to look inside his wallet.
Watson:Why?
Sherlock: Mr. Ewert's a liar.
Sherlock: Hello?
Young Man: The clue's in the name - Janus Cars.
Sherlock: Why would you be giving me a clue?
Young Man: Why does anyone do anything? Because I'm bored. We were made for each other, Sherlock.
Sherlock: Then talk to me in your own voice.
Young Man: Patience.
Sherlock: How much blood was on that seat, would you say?
Lestrade: How much? About a pint.
Sherlock: Not 'about'. Exactly a pint. That was their first mistake. The blood's definitely Ian Monkford's but it's been frozen.
Lestrade: Frozen?
Sherlock: There are clear signs. I think Ian Monkford gave a pint of his blood some time ago and that's what they spread on the seats.
Watson:Who did?
Sherlock: Janus Cars. The clue's in the name.
Watson:The god with two faces.
Sherlock: Exactly.
Watson:Mmm.
Sherlock: They provide a very special service. If you've got any kind of a problem – money troubles, bad marriage, whatever – Janus Cars will help you disappear. Ian Monkford was up to his eyes in some kind of trouble – financial, at a guess; he's a banker. Couldn't see a way out. But if he were to vanish, if the car he hired was found abandoned with his blood all over the driver's seat...
Watson:So where is he?
Sherlock: Colombia.
Lestrade: Colombia?!
Sherlock: Mr. Ewert of Janus Cars had a twenty thousand Colombian peso note in his wallet...
Sherlock: ..Quite a bit of change, too. He told us he hadn't been abroad recently, but when I asked him about the cars, I could see his tan line clearly.
Sherlock: No-one wears a shirt on a sunbed. That, plus his arm.
Lestrade: His arm?
Sherlock: Kept scratching it. Obviously irritating him, and bleeding.
Sherlock: Why? Because he'd recently had a booster jab. Hep-B, probably. Difficult to tell at that distance. Conclusion: he'd just come back from settling Ian Monkford into his new life in Columbia. Mrs Monkford cashes in the life insurance and she splits it with Janus Cars.
Watson:M-Mrs Monkford?
Sherlock: Oh yes. She's in on it too.
Sherlock: Now go and arrest them, Inspector. That's what you do best.
Sherlock: We need to let our friendly b*mb know that the case is solved.
Sherlock: I am on f*re!
Young Man: He says you can come and fetch me. Help. Help me, please.
Sherlock: Feeling better?
Watson:Mmm. You realise we've hardly stopped for breath since this thing started?
Watson:Has it occurred to you...?
Sherlock: Probably.
Watson:No – has it occurred to you that the b*mb's playing a game with you? The envelope; breaking into the other flat; the d*ad kid's shoes – it's all meant for you.
Sherlock: Yes, I know.
Watson:Is it him, then? Moriarty?
Sherlock: Perhaps.
Sherlock: That could be anybody.
Watson:Well, it could be, yeah. Lucky for you, I've been more than a little unemployed.
Sherlock: How d'you mean?
Watson:Lucky for you, Mrs Hudson and I watch far too much telly.
Connie: Thank you, Tyra! Doesn't she look lovely, everybody, now?
Connie: Anyway, speaking of silk purses and sows' ears...
Sherlock: Hello?
Old Woman: This one... is a bit... defective. Sorry.
Old Woman: She's blind. This is... a funny one.
Old Woman: I'll give you... twelve hours.
Sherlock: Why are you doing this?
Old Woman: I like... to watch you... dance.
Connie: ..and I see you're back to your bad habits.
News Reader: ..continuing into the sudden death of the popular TV personality, Connie Prince. Miss Prince, famous for her make-over programmes, was found d*ad two days ago by her brother in the house they shared in Hampstead...
Lestrade: Connie Prince, fifty-four. She had one of those make-over shows on the telly. Did you see it?
Sherlock: No.
Lestrade: Very popular. She was going places.
Sherlock: Not any more. So, d*ad two days. According to one of her staff, Raoul de Santos, she cut her hand on a rusty nail in the garden. Nasty wound.
Sherlock: Tetanus bacteria enters the bloodstream, good night, Vienna.
Watson:I suppose.
Sherlock: Something's wrong with this picture.
Lestrade: Eh?
Sherlock: Can't be as simple as it seems, otherwise the b*mb wouldn't be directing us towards it. Something's wrong.
Sherlock: John?
Watson:Mmm.
Sherlock: The cut on her hand: it's deep; would have bled a lot, right?
Watson:Yeah.
Sherlock: But the wound's clean – very clean, and fresh.
Sherlock: How long would the bacteria have been incubating inside her?
Watson:Eight, ten days.
Watson:The cut was made later.
Lestrade: After she was d*ad?
Sherlock: Must have been. The only question is, how did the tetanus enter the d*ad woman's system?
Sherlock: You want to help, right?
Watson:Of course.
Sherlock: Connie Prince's background – family history, everything. Give me data.
Watson:Right.
Lestrade: There's something else that we haven't thought of.
Sherlock: Is there?
Lestrade: Yes. Why is he doing this, the b*mb?
Lestrade: If this woman's death was suspicious, why point it out?
Sherlock: Good Samaritan.
Lestrade: ..who press-gangs su1c1de b*mb?
Sherlock: Bad Samaritan.
Lestrade: I'm – I'm serious, Sherlock. Listen, I'm cutting you slack here, I'm trusting you – but out there somewhere, some poor bastard's covered in Semtex and is just waiting for you to solve the puzzle. So just tell me - what are we dealing with?
Sherlock: Something new.
Sherlock: Connection, connection, connection. There must be a connection.
Sherlock: Carl Powers, k*lled twenty years ago. The b*mb knew him; admitted that he knew him. The b*mb's iPhone was in stationery from the Czech Republic. First hostage from Cornwall; the second from London; the third from Yorkshire, judging by her accent. What's he doing –
working his way round the world? Showing off?
Old Woman: You're enjoying this, aren't you? Joining the... dots.
Old Woman: Three hours.  Boom... boom.
Kenny: We're devastated. Of course we are.
Raoul: Can I get you anything, sir?
Watson:Er, no. No, thanks.
Kenny: Raoul is my rock. I don't think I could have managed.
Kenny: We didn't always see eye to eye, but my sister was very dear to me.
Watson:And– and to the public, Mr. Prince.
Kenny: Oh, she was adored. I've seen her take girls who looked like the back end of Routemasters and turn them into princesses.
Kenny: Still, it's a relief in a way to know that she's beyond this veil of tears.
Watson:Absolutely.
Sherlock: Great. Thank you. Thanks again.
Mrs Hudson: It was a real shame. I liked her. She taught you how to do your colours.
Lestrade: Colours?
Mrs Hudson: You know... what goes best with what. I should never wear cerise, apparently. Drains me.
Lestrade: Who was that?
Sherlock: Home Office.
Lestrade: Home Office?
Sherlock: Well, Home Secretary, actually. Owes me a favour.
Mrs Hudson: She was a pretty girl but she messed about with herself too much. They all do these days.
Mrs Hudson: People can hardly move their faces. It's silly, isn't it?!
Mrs Hudson: Did you ever see her show?
Sherlock: Not until now.
Connie: You look pasty, love!
Kenny: Ah. Rained every day but one!
Mrs Hudson: That's the brother. No love lost there, if you can believe the papers.
Sherlock: So I gather. I've just been having a very fruitful chat with people who loved this show. Fan sites – indispensible for gossip.
Connie: There's really only one thing we can do with that ensemble, don't you think, girls?
Connie: Off, off, off, off, off, off, off!
Watson:It's more common than people think. The tetanus is in the soil, people cut themselves on rose bushes, garden forks, that sort of thing.
If left un...
Watson:..treated...
Kenny: I don't know what I'm going to do now.
Watson:Right.
Kenny: I mean, she's left me this place, which is lovely...
Kenny: ..but it's not the same without her.
Watson:Th-that's why my paper wanted to get the, um, the full story straight from the horse's mouth. You sure it's not too soon?
Kenny: No.
Watson:Right.
Kenny: You f*re away.
Sherlock: John.
Watson:Hi. Look, get over here quickly. I think I'm onto something. You'll need to pick up some stuff first. You got a pen?
Sherlock: I'll remember.
Watson:That'll be him.
Kenny: What?
Sherlock: Ah, Mr. Prince, isn't it?
Kenny: Yes.
Sherlock: Very good to meet you.
Kenny: Yes; thank you.
Sherlock: So sorry to hear about...
Kenny: Yes, yes, very kind.
Watson:Shall we, er...
Watson:You were right. The bacteria got into her another way.
Sherlock: Oh yes?
Watson:Yes.
Kenny: Right. We all set?
Watson:Um, yes.
Watson:Can you...?
Kenny: Not too close. I'm raw from crying.
Sherlock: Oh, who's this?
Kenny: Sekhmet. Named after the Egyptian goddess.
Sherlock: How nice! Was she Connie's?
Kenny: Yes.
Kenny: Little present from yours truly.
Watson:Sherlock? Uh, light reading?
Sherlock: Oh, um...
Sherlock: Two point eight.
Kenny: Bloody hell. What do you think you're playing at?!
Sherlock: Sorry.
Kenny: You're like Laurel and bloody Hardy, you two. What's going on?
Watson:Actually, I think we've got what we came for. Excuse us.
Kenny: What?
Watson:Sherlock.
Sherlock: What?
Watson:We've got deadlines.
Kenny: But you've not taken anything!
Watson: Yes! Ooh, yes!
Sherlock: You think it was the cat. It wasn't the cat.
Watson:What? No, yes. Yeah, it is. It must be. It's how they got the tetanus into her system. Its paws stink of disinfectant.
Sherlock: Lovely idea.
Watson:No, he coated it onto the paws of her cat. It's a new pet, bound to be a bit jumpy around her. A scratch is almost inevitable. She wouldn't have...
Sherlock: I thought of it the minute I saw the scratches on her arm, but it's too random and too clever for the brother.
Watson:He m*rder his sister for her money.
Sherlock: Did he?
Watson:Didn't he?
Sherlock: No. It was revenge.
Watson:Revenge? Who wanted revenge?
Sherlock: Raoul, the houseboy. Kenny Prince was the butt of his sister's jokes, week in, week out, a virtual bullying campaign. Finally he had enough; fell out with her badly. It's all on the website. She thr*at to disinherit Kenny. Raoul had grown accustomed to a certain lifestyle, so...
Watson:No, wait, wait. Wait a second.
Watson:What about the disinfectant, then, on the cat's claws?
Sherlock: Raoul keeps a very clean house. You came through the kitchen door, saw the state of that floor, scrubbed to within an inch of its life. You smell of disinfectant now. No, the cat doesn't come into it.
Sherlock: Raoul's Internet records do, though. Hope we can get a cab from here.
Sherlock: Raoul de Santos is your k*ller. Kenny Prince's houseboy. Second autopsy shows it wasn't tetanus that poisoned Connie Prince, it was botulinum toxin.
Sherlock: We've been here before. Carl Powers? Tut-tut. Our b*mb's repeated himself.
Lestrade: So how'd he do it?
Sherlock: Botox injection.
Lestrade: Botox?
Sherlock: Botox is a diluted form of botulinum. Among other things, Raoul de Santos was employed to give Connie her regular facial injections. My contact at the Home Office gave me the complete records of Raoul's Internet purchases. He's been bulk ordering Botox for months.
Sherlock: Bided his time, then upped the strength to a fatal dose.
Lestrade: You sure about this?
Sherlock: I'm sure.
Lestrade: All right – my office.
Watson:Hey, Sherlock. How long?
Sherlock: What?
Watson:How long have you known?
Sherlock: Well, this one was quite simple, actually, and like I said, the b*mb repeated himself. That was a mistake.
Watson:No, but Sherl... The hostage... the old woman. She's been there all this time.
Sherlock: I knew I could save her. I also knew that the b*mb had given us twelve hours. I solved the case quickly; that gave me time to get on with other things. Don't you see? We're one up on him!
Sherlock: Hello?
Old Woman: Help me.
Sherlock: Tell us where you are. Address.
Old Woman: He was so... His voice...
Sherlock: No, no, no, no. Tell me nothing about him. Nothing.
Old Woman: He sounded so... soft.
Sherlock: Hello?
Lestrade: Sherlock?
Watson:What's happened?
News Reader: The expl*si*n, which ripped through several floors, k*lling twelve people...
Watson:Old block of flats.
News Reader: ..is said to have been caused by a faulty gas main. A spokesman from the utilities company...
Watson:He certainly gets about.
Sherlock: Well, obviously I lost that round, although technically I did solve the case.
Sherlock: He k*lled the old lady because she started to describe him.
Sherlock: Just once, he put himself in the f*ring line.
Watson:What d'you mean?
Sherlock: Well, usually, he must stay above it all. He organises these things but no-one ever has direct contact.
Watson:What... like the Connie Prince m*rder – he-he arranged that? So people come to him wanting their crimes fixed up, like booking a holiday?
Sherlock: Novel.
Watson:Huh.
Sherlock: Taking his time this time.
Watson:Anything on the Carl Powers case?
Sherlock: Nothing. All the living classmates check out spotless. No connection.
Watson:Maybe the k*ller was older than Carl?
Sherlock: The thought had occurred.
Watson:So why's he doing this, then – playing this game with you? D'you think he wants to be caught?
Sherlock: I think he wants to be distracted.
Watson:I hope you'll be very happy together.
Sherlock: Sorry, what?
Watson:There are lives at stake, Sherlock – actual human lives... Just - just so I know, do you care about that at all?
Sherlock: Will caring about them help save them?
Watson:Nope.
Sherlock: Then I'll continue not to make that mistake.
Watson:And you find that easy, do you?
Sherlock: Yes, very. Is that news to you?
Watson:No. No.
Sherlock: I've disappointed you.
Watson:That's good, that's a good deduction, yeah.
Sherlock: Don't make people into heroes, John. Heroes don't exist, and if they did, I wouldn't be one of them.
Sherlock: Excellent!
Sherlock: View of the Thames. South Bank – somewhere between Southwark Bridge and Waterloo.
Sherlock: You check the papers; I'll look online...
Sherlock: Oh, you're angry with me, so you won't help.
Sherlock: Not much cop, this caring lark.
Watson:Archway su1c1de.
Sherlock: Ten a penny.
Watson:Two kids s*ab in Stoke Newington.
Watson:Ah. Man found on the train line, Andrew West.
Sherlock: Nothing!
Sherlock: It's me. Have you found anything on the South Bank between Waterloo Bridge and Southwark Bridge?
Lestrade: D'you reckon this is connected, then? The b*mb?
Sherlock: Must be. Odd, though... he hasn't been in touch.
Lestrade: But we must assume that some poor bugger's primed to explode, yeah?
Sherlock: Yes.
Lestrade: Any ideas?
Sherlock: Seven... so far.
Lestrade: Seven?!
Watson:He's d*ad about twenty-four hours – maybe a bit longer. Did he drown?
Lestrade: Apparently not. Not enough of the Thames in his lungs.
Asphyxiated.
Watson:Yes, I'd agree.
Watson:There's quite a bit of bruising around the nose and mouth. More bruises here and here.
Sherlock: Fingertips.
Watson:In his late thirties, I'd say. Not in the best condition.
Sherlock: He's been in the river a long while. The water's destroyed most of the data.
Sherlock: But I'll tell you one thing: that lost Vermeer painting's a fake.
Lestrade: What?
Sherlock: We need to identify the corpse. Find out about his friends and associates...
Lestrade: Wait-wait-wait-wait-wait. What painting? What are you – what are you on about?
Sherlock: It's all over the place. Haven't you seen the posters? Dutch Old Master, supposed to have been destroyed centuries ago; now it's turned up. Worth thirty million pounds.
Lestrade: Okay. So what has that got to do with the stiff?
Sherlock: Everything. Have you ever heard of the Golem?
Lestrade: Golem?
Watson:It's a horror story, isn't it? What are you saying?
Sherlock: Jewish folk story. A gigantic man made of clay. It's also the name of an assassin. Real name: Oskar Dzundza. One of the deadliest assassins in the world.
Sherlock: That is his trademark style.
Lestrade: So this is a h*t?
Sherlock: Definitely. The Golem squeezes the life out of his victims with his bare hands.
Lestrade: But what has this gotta do with that painting? I don't see...
Sherlock: You do see, you just don't observe.
Watson:All right, all right, girls, calm down. Sherlock? D'you wanna take us through it?
Sherlock: What do we know about this corpse? The k*ller's not left us with much, just the shirt and the trousers. They're pretty formal, maybe he was going out for the night. The trousers are heavy duty. Polyester, nasty, same as the shirt, cheap. They're both too big for him. So some kind of standard-issue uniform. Dressed for work, then. What kind of work? There's a hook on his belt... for a walkie-talkie.
Lestrade: Tube driver?
Watson:Security guard?
Sherlock: More likely. That'll be borne out by his backside.
Lestrade: Backside?!
Sherlock: Flabby. You'd think that he'd led a sedentary life, yet the soles of his feet and the nascent varicose veins in his legs show otherwise. So, a lot of walking and a lot of sitting around. Security guard's looking good. And the watch helps, too. The alarm shows he did regular night shifts.
Lestrade: Why regular? Maybe he just set his alarm like that the night before he d*ed?
Sherlock: No, no, no. The buttons are stiff, hardly touched. He set his alarm like that a long time ago. His routine never varied. But there's something else. The k*ller must have been interrupted, otherwise he would have stripped the corpse completely. There was some kind of badge or insignia on the shirt front that he tore off, suggesting the d*ad man worked somewhere recognisable, some kind of institution.
Sherlock: Found this inside his trouser pockets.
Sherlock: Sodden by the river but still recognisably...
Watson:Tickets?
Sherlock: Ticket stubs. He worked in a museum or gallery. Did a quick check. The Hickman Gallery has reported one of its attendants as missing.
Sherlock: Alex Woodbridge. Tonight they unveil the re-discovered masterpiece. Now why would anyone want to pay the Golem to suffocate a perfectly ordinary gallery attendant? Inference, the d*ad man knew something about it, something that would stop the owner getting paid thirty million pounds. The picture's a fake.
Watson:Fantastic.
Sherlock: Meretricious.
Lestrade: And a Happy New Year!
Watson:Poor sod.
Lestrade: I'd better get my feelers out for this Golem character.
Sherlock: Pointless. You'll never find him. But I know a man who can.
Lestrade: Who?
Sherlock: Me.
Sherlock: Why hasn't he phoned? He's broken his pattern. Why?
Sherlock: Waterloo Bridge.
Watson:Where now? The Gallery?
Sherlock: In a bit.
Watson:The Hickman's contemporary art, isn't it? Why have they got hold of an old master?
Sherlock: Dunno. Dangerous to jump to conclusions. Need data...
Sherlock: Stop!
Sherlock: You wait here. I won't be a moment.
Watson:Sherlock?
Homeless Girl: Change? Any change?
Sherlock: What for?
Homeless Girl: Cup of tea, of course.
Sherlock: Here you go, a fifty.
Homeless Girl: Thanks.
Watson:What are you doing?
Sherlock: Investing.
Sherlock: Now we go to the Gallery.
Sherlock: Have you got any cash?
Sherlock: No. I need you to find out all you can about the gallery attendant. Lestrade will give you the address.
Watson:Okay.
Julie: We'd been sharing about a year. Just sharing.
Watson:Mmm.
Watson:May I?
Julie: Yeah.
Watson:Sorry.
Watson:Stargazer, was he?
Julie: God, yeah. Mad about it. It's all he ever did in his spare time.
Julie: He was a nice guy, Alex. I liked him.
Julie: He was, er, never much of a one for hoovering.
Watson:What about art? Did he know anything about that?
Julie: It was just a job, you know?
Watson:Hmm.
Watson:Has anyone else been round asking about Alex?
Julie: No. We had a break-in, though.
Watson:Hmm? When?
Julie: Last night. There was nothing taken. Oh, there was a message left for Alex on the landline.
Watson:Who was it from?
Julie: Well, I can play it for you if you like. I'll get the phone...
Watson:Please.
Woman's voice: Oh, should I speak now? Alex? Love, it's Professor Cairns. Listen, you were right. You were bloody right! Give us a call when...
Watson:Professor Cairns?
Julie: No, no idea, sorry.
Watson:Mmm. Can I try and ring back?
Julie: Well, no good. I mean, I've had other calls since. Sympathy ones, you know.
Miss Wenceslas: Don't you have something to do?
Sherlock: Just admiring the view.
Miss Wenceslas: Yes. Lovely. Now get back to work; we open tonight.
Sherlock: Doesn't it bother you?
Miss Wenceslas: What?
Sherlock: That the painting's a fake.
Miss Wenceslas: What?
Sherlock: It's a fake. It has to be. It's the only possible explanation.
Sherlock: You're in charge, aren't you, Miss Wenceslas?
Miss Wenceslas: Who are you?
Sherlock: Alex Woodbridge knew that the painting was a fake, so somebody sent the Golem to take care of him. Was it you?
Miss Wenceslas: Golem? What the hell are you talking about?
Sherlock: Or are you working for someone else? Did you fake it for them?
Miss Wenceslas: It's not a fake.
Sherlock: It is a fake. Don't know why, but there's something wrong with it. There has to be.
Miss Wenceslas: What the hell are you on about? You know, I could have you sacked on the spot.
Sherlock: Not a problem.
Miss Wenceslas: No?
Sherlock: No. I don't work here, you see. Just popped in to give you a bit of friendly advice.
Miss Wenceslas: How did you get in?
Sherlock: Please.
Miss Wenceslas: I want to know.
Sherlock: The art of disguise is knowing how to hide in plain sight.
Miss Wenceslas: Who are you?
Sherlock: Sherlock Holmes.
Miss Wenceslas: Am I supposed to be impressed?
Sherlock: You should be.
Sherlock: Have a nice day!
Lucy: He wouldn't. He just wouldn't.
Watson:Well, stranger things have happened.
Lucy: Westie wasn't a traitor. It's a horrible thing to say!
Watson:I'm sorry, but you must understand that's...
Lucy: That's what they think, isn't it, his bosses?
Watson:He was a young man, about to get married. He had debts...
Lucy: Everyone's got debts, and Westie wouldn't wanna clear them by selling out his country.
Watson:Can you, erm...? Can you tell me exactly what happened that night?
Lucy: We were having a night in. Just... watching a DVD.
Lucy: He normally falls asleep, you know, but he sat through this one. He was quiet.
Lucy: Out of the blue, he said he just had to go and see someone.
Watson:And you've no idea who?
Joe: Oh, hi, Luce. You okay, love?
Lucy: Yeah.
Joe: Who's this?
Watson:John Watson. Hi.
Lucy: This is my brother, Joe. John's trying to find out what happened to Westie, Joe.
Joe: You with the police?
Watson:Uh, sort of, yeah.
Joe: Well, tell 'em to get off their arses, will you? It's bloody ridiculous.
Watson:I'll do my best.
Watson: Well, er, thanks very much for your help. Again, I'm very, very sorry.
Lucy: He didn't steal those things, Mr. Watson.
Lucy: I knew Westie. He was a good man. He was my good man.
Homeless Girl: Spare change? Any spare change?
Watson:Alex Woodbridge didn't know anything special about art.
Sherlock: And?
Watson:And...
Sherlock: Is that it? No habits, hobbies, personality?
Watson:No, give us a chance! He was an amateur astronomer.
Sherlock: Hold that cab.
Homeless Girl: Spare change, sir?
Sherlock: Don't mind if I do.
Watson:Can you wait here?
Sherlock: Fortunately, I haven't been idle.
Sherlock: Come on.
Sherlock: Beautiful, isn't it?
Watson:I thought you didn't care about things like that.
Sherlock: Doesn't mean I can't appreciate it.
Watson:Listen, Alex Woodbridge had a message on the answerphone at his flat. A Professor Cairns?
Sherlock: This way.
Watson:Nice! Nice part of town. Er, any time you wanna explain.
Sherlock: Homeless network – really is indispensible.
Watson:Homeless network?
Sherlock: My eyes and ears all over the city.
Watson:Ah, that's... clever. So you scratch their backs and...?
Sherlock: Yes, then I disinfect myself.
Watson:Sherlock!
Sherlock: Come on!
Watson:What's he doing sleeping rough?
Sherlock: Well, he has a very distinctive look. He has to hide somewhere where tongues won't wag – much.
Watson:Oh shi...
Sherlock: What?
Watson:I wish I'd...
Sherlock: Don't mention it.
Sherlock: No! No! No! No!  It'll take us weeks to find him again.
Watson:Or not. I have an idea where he might be going.
Sherlock: What?
Watson:I told you: someone left Alex Woodbridge a message. There can't be that many Professor Cairns in the book. Come on.
Narrator: Jupiter, the fifth planet in our solar system and the largest. Jupiter is a gas giant. Planet Earth would fit into it eleven times.
Cairns: Yes, we know that.
Narrator: Titan is the largest moon.
Cairns: Come on, Neptune, where're you hiding?
Narrator: Many are actually long d*ad...
Cairns: Tom? Is that you?
Narrator: ..exploded into supernovas.
Narrator: Discovered by Urbain Le Verrier in eighteen forty-six...
Cairns: Oh my God!
Narrator: ..composed mainly of hydrogen.  Their light takes so long to reach us...
Sherlock: Golem!
Narrator: ..many are actually long-d*ad, exploded into supernovas.
Watson:I can't see him. I'll go round. I'll go!
Sherlock: Who are you working for this time, Dzundza?
Watson:Golem!
Watson:Let him go... or I will k*ll you.
Narrator: The fourth planet of the solar system, named after the Roman God of w*r. ...it is a gas giant... ..takes so long to reach us...  ..into supernovas... long d*ad, exploded into supernovas...
Sherlock: It's a fake. It has to be.
Miss Wenceslas: That painting has been subjected to every test known to science.
Sherlock: It's a very good fake, then.
Sherlock: You know about this, don't you? This is you, isn't it?
Miss Wenceslas: Inspector, my time is being wasted. Would you mind showing yourself and your friends out?
Sherlock: The painting is a fake.
Sherlock: It's a fake. That's why Woodbridge and Cairns were k*lled.
Sherlock: Oh, come on. Proving it's just the detail. The painting is a fake. I've solved it. I've figured it out. It's a fake! That's the answer. That's why they were k*lled.
Sherlock: Okay, I'll prove it. Give me time. Will you give me time?
Boy's voice: Ten...
Lestrade: It's a kid. Oh, God, it's a kid!
Watson:What did he say?
Sherlock: "Ten."
Boy's voice: Nine...
Sherlock: It's a countdown. He's giving me time.
Lestrade: Jesus!
Sherlock: The painting is a fake, but how can I prove it? How? How?
Boy's voice: Eight...
Sherlock: This kid will die. Tell me why the painting is a fake. Tell me!
Boy's voice: Seven...
Sherlock: No, shut up. Don't say anything. It only works if I figure it out.
Sherlock: Must be possible. Must be staring me in the face.
Boy's voice: Six...
Watson:Come on.
Sherlock: Woodbridge knew, but how?
Boy's voice: Five...
Lestrade: It's speeding up!
Watson:Sherlock.
Sherlock: Oh!
Boy's voice: Four...
Sherlock: In the planetarium, You heard it too. Oh, that is brilliant; that is gorgeous!
Boy's voice: Three...
Watson:What's brilliant? What is?
Sherlock: This is beautiful. I love this!
Boy's voice: Two...
Lestrade: Sherlock!
Sherlock: The Van Buren Supernova!
Boy's voice: Please. Is somebody there?
Boy's voice: Somebody help me!
Sherlock: There you go. Go find out where he is and pick him up.
Sherlock: The Van Buren Supernova, so-called. Exploding star, only appeared in the sky in eighteen fifty-eight.
Watson:So how could it have been painted in the sixteen forties?
Watson:Oh...
Watson:Oh Sherl...
Sherlock: You know, it's interesting. Bohemian stationery, an assassin named after a Prague legend, and you, Miss Wenceslas. This whole case has a distinctly Czech feeling about it. Is that where this leads?
Sherlock: What are we looking at, Inspector?
Lestrade: Well, um, criminal conspiracy, fraud, accessory after the fact at the very least. The m*rder of the old woman, all the people in the flats...
Miss Wenceslas: I didn't know anything about that! All those things, please, believe me.
Miss Wenceslas: I just wanted my share. The thirty million.
Miss Wenceslas: I found a little old man in Argentina. A genius - I mean, really. Brushwork, immaculate. Could fool anyone.
Sherlock: Mmm.
Miss Wenceslas: Well, nearly anyone. But I didn't know how to go about convincing the world the picture was genuine. It was just an idea. A spark which he blew into a flame.
Sherlock: Who?
Miss Wenceslas: I don't know.
Miss Wenceslas: It's true! I mean, it took a long time, but eventually I was... put in touch with people... his people...
Miss Wenceslas: Well, there was never any real contact. Just messages... whispers.
Sherlock: And did those whispers have a name?
Miss Wenceslas: Moriarty.
Watson:So this is where West was found?
Tube Guard: Yeah.
Watson:Uh-huh.
Tube Guard: You gonna be long?
Watson:I might be.
Tube Guard: You with the police, then?
Watson:Sort of.
Tube Guard: I hate 'em.
Watson:The police?
Tube Guard: No. Jumpers.
Tube Guard: People who chuck themselves in front of trains. Selfish bastards.
Watson:Well, that's one way of looking at it.
Tube Guard: I mean it. It's all right for them. It's over in a split second, strawberry jam all over the lines. What about the drivers, eh? They've gotta live with it, haven't they?
Watson:Yeah, speaking of strawberry jam, there's no blood on the line. Has it been cleaned off?
Tube Guard: No, there wasn't that much.
Watson:You said his head was smashed in.
Tube Guard: Well, it was, but there wasn't much blood.
Watson:Okay.
Tube Guard: Well, I'll leave you to it then.
Tube Guard: Just give us a shout when you're off.
Watson:Right.
Watson:Right, so, uh, Andrew West got on the train somewhere, or did he? There's no ticket on the body. Then how did he end up here?
Sherlock: Points.
Watson:Yes!
Sherlock: Knew you'd get there eventually. West wasn't k*lled here; that's why there was so little blood.
Watson:How long have you been following me?
Sherlock: Since the start. You don't think I'd give up on a case like this just to spite my brother, do you?
Sherlock: Come on. Got a bit of burglary to do.
Sherlock: The m*ssile defence plans haven't left the country, otherwise Mycroft's people would have heard about it. Despite what people think, we do still have a Secret Service.
Watson:Yeah, I know. I've met them.
Sherlock: Which means whoever stole the memory stick can't sell it or doesn't know what to do with it. My money's on the latter. We're here.
Watson:Where?
Watson:Sherlock! What if there's someone in?
Sherlock: There isn't.
Watson:Jesus...
Watson:Where are we?
Sherlock: Oh, sorry, didn't I say? Joe Harrison's flat.
Watson:Joe...?
Sherlock: Brother of West's fiancée.
Sherlock: He stole the memory stick, k*lled his prospective brother-in-law.
Watson:Then why'd he do it?
Sherlock: Let's ask him.
Watson:Don't!
Watson:Don't.
Joe: It wasn't meant to...
Joe: God. What's Lucy gonna say? Jesus.
Watson:Why did you k*ll him?
Joe: It was an accident.
Joe: I swear it was.
Sherlock: But stealing the plans for the m*ssile defence programme wasn't an accident, was it?
Joe: I started dealing drugs. I mean, the bike thing's a great cover, right? I dunno-– I dunno how it started. I just got out of my depth. I owed people thousands. Serious people. Then at Westie's engagement do, he starts talking about his job.
Joe: I mean, usually he's so careful, but that night after a few pints he really opened up. He told me about these m*ssile plans – beyond top secret. He showed me the memory stick; he waved it in front of me. You hear about these things getting lost, ending up on rubbish tips and what-not. And there it was, and I thought... Well, I thought it could be worth a fortune.
Joe: It was pretty easy to get the thing off him, he was so plastered. Next time I saw him, I could tell by the look on his face that he knew.
Westie: I know you took it.
Joe: What are you doin' 'ere?
Westie: What have you done with it?
Joe: What are you talking about?
Westie: What have you done with the plans?
Watson:What happened?
Joe: I was gonna call an ambulance, but it was too late.
Joe: I just didn't have a clue what to do, so I dragged him in 'ere, and I just sat in the dark, thinking.
Sherlock: When a neat little idea popped into your head.
Sherlock: Carrying Andrew West way away from here. His body would have gone on for ages if the train hadn't met a stretch of track that curved.
Watson:And points.
Sherlock: Exactly.
Watson:D'you still have it, then? The memory stick?
Sherlock: Fetch it for me – if you wouldn't mind.
Sherlock: Distraction over, the game continues.
Watson:Well, maybe that's over, too. We've heard nothing from the b*mb.
Sherlock: Five pips, remember, John? It's a countdown. We've only had four.
Sherlock: No, no, no! Of course he's not the boy's father! Look at the turn-ups on his jeans!
Watson:Knew it was dangerous.
Sherlock: Hm?
Watson:Getting you into crap telly.
Sherlock: Hm. Not a patch on Connie Prince.
Watson:Have you given Mycroft the memory stick yet?
Sherlock: Yep. He was over the moon. thr*at me with a knighthood... again.
Watson:You know, I'm still waiting.
Sherlock: Hm?
Watson:For you to admit that a little knowledge of the solar system and you'd have cleared up the fake painting a lot quicker.
Sherlock: Didn't do you any good, did it?
Watson:No, but I'm not the world's only consulting detective.
Sherlock: True.
Watson:I won't be in for tea. I'm going to Sarah's. There's still some of that risotto left in the fridge.
Sherlock: Mm!
Watson:Uh, milk. We need milk.
Sherlock: I'll get some.
Watson:Really?
Sherlock: Really.
Watson:And some beans, then?
Sherlock: Mm.
Sherlock: Brought you a little getting-to-know-you present. Oh, that's what it's all been for, hasn't it? All your little puzzles; making me dance – all to distract me from this.
Watson:Evening.
Watson:This is a turn-up, isn't it, Sherlock?
Sherlock: John. What the hell...?
Watson:Bet you never saw this coming.
Watson:What... would you like me... to make him say... next?
Watson:Gottle o' gear... gottle o' gear... gottle o' gear.
Sherlock: Stop it.
Watson:Nice touch, this. The pool where little Carl d*ed. I stopped him. I can stop John Watson too. Stop his heart.
Sherlock: Who are you?
Voice: I gave you my number.
Voice: I thought you might call.
Moriarty: Is that British Army Browning L9A1 in your pocket...
Moriarty: ..or are you just pleased to see me?
Sherlock: Both.
Moriarty: Jim Moriarty. Hi!
Moriarty: Jim? Jim from the hospital?
Moriarty: Oh. Did I really make such a fleeting impression? But then, I suppose, that was rather the point.
Moriarty: Don't be silly. Someone else is holding the r*fle. I don't like getting my hands dirty.
Moriarty: I've given you a glimpse, Sherlock, just a teensy glimpse of what I've got going on out there in the big bad world. I'm a specialist, you see...
Moriarty: ..like you!
Sherlock: "Dear Jim. Please will you fix it for me to get rid of my lover's nasty sister?"
Sherlock: "Dear Jim. Please will you fix it for me to disappear to South America?"
Moriarty: Just so.
Sherlock: Consulting criminal. Brilliant.
Moriarty: Isn't it? No-one ever gets to me... and no-one ever will.
Sherlock: I did.
Moriarty: You've come the closest. Now you're in my way.
Sherlock: Thank you.
Moriarty: Didn't mean it as a compliment.
Sherlock: Yes you did.
Moriarty: Yeah, okay, I did. But the flirting's over, Sherlock...  Daddy's had enough now!
Moriarty: I've shown you what I can do. I cut loose all those people, all those little problems, even thirty million quid just to get you to come out and play.
Moriarty: So take this as a friendly warning, my dear. Back off.
Moriarty: Although I have loved this – this little game of ours. Playing Jim from I.T. Playing gay. Did you like the little touch with the underwear?
Sherlock: People have d*ed.
Moriarty:  That's what people DO!
Sherlock: I will stop you.
Moriarty: No you won't.
Sherlock: You all right?
Moriarty: You can talk, Johnny-boy. Go ahead.
Sherlock: Take it.
Moriarty: Huh? Oh! That!
Moriarty: The m*ssile plans!
Moriarty: Boring!
Moriarty: I could have got them anywhere.
Watson:Sherlock, run!
Moriarty:  Good! Very good.
Watson:If your sn*per pulls that trigger, Mr. Moriarty, then we both go up.
Moriarty: Isn't he sweet? I can see why you like having him around. But then people do get so sentimental about their pets.
Moriarty: They're so touchingly loyal. But, oops!
Moriarty: You've rather shown your hand there, Doctor Watson.
Moriarty: Gotcha!
Moriarty: Westwood!
Moriarty: D'you know what happens if you don't leave me alone, Sherlock, to you?
Sherlock: Oh, let me guess: I get k*lled.
Moriarty: k*ll you? N-no, don't be obvious. I mean, I'm gonna k*ll you anyway some day. I don't wanna rush it, though. I'm saving it up for something special. No-no-no-no-no. If you don't stop prying, I'll burn you.
Moriarty: I'll burn the heart out of you.
Sherlock: I have been reliably informed that I don't have one.
Moriarty: But we both know that's not quite true.
Moriarty: Well, I'd better be off.
Moriarty: Well, so nice to have had a proper chat.
Sherlock: What if I was to sh**t you now? Right now?
Moriarty: Then you could cherish the look of surprise on my face.
Moriarty: 'Cause I'd be surprised, Sherlock. Really I would.
Moriarty: And just a teensy bit... disappointed. And of course you wouldn't be able to cherish it for very long.
Moriarty: Ciao, Sherlock Holmes.
Sherlock: Catch... you... later.
Moriarty: No you won't!
Sherlock: All right?
Sherlock: Are you all right?
Watson:Yeah-yeah, I'm fine.
Watson:I'm fine.
Watson:Sherlock.
Watson:Sh-Sherlock!
Watson:Jesus.
Watson:Oh, Christ.
Watson:Are you okay?
Sherlock: Me? Yeah, I'm fine, I'm fine. Fine.
Sherlock: That, er... thing that you, er, that you did. That, um... you offered to do. That was, um... good.
Watson:I'm glad no-one saw that.
Sherlock: Mm?
Watson:You, ripping my clothes off in a darkened swimming pool. People might talk.
Sherlock: People do little else.
Watson:Oh...
Moriarty: Sorry, boys! I'm so... changeable!
Moriarty: It is a weakness with me but, to be fair to myself, it is my only weakness.
Moriarty: You can't be allowed to continue. You just can't. I would try to convince you but... everything I have to say has already crossed your mind.
Sherlock: Probably my answer has crossed yours.
JIM: D’you mind if I get that?
Sherlock: No, no, please. You’ve got the rest of your life.
JIM: Hello? ... Yes, of course it is. What do you want?
JIM : SAY THAT AGAIN!
JIM : Say that again, and know that if you’re lying to me, I will find you and I will skin you.
JIM : Wait.
JIM: Sorry. Wrong day to die.
Sherlock: Oh. Did you get a better offer?
JIM: You’ll be hearing from me, Sherlock.
JIM : So if you have what you say you have, I will make you rich. If you don’t, I’ll make you into shoes.
Watson: What happened there?
Sherlock: Someone changed his mind. The question is: who?
IRENE: Well now. Have you been wicked, Your Highness?
SULTRY FEMALE VOICE: Yes, Miss Adler.
NEW OPENING CREDITS!
221B BAKER STREET. MAY 30. John is sitting at the table in the living room updating his blog on his laptop. Sherlock, wearing a red dressing gown over his shirt and trousers, is standing at the other side of the table drinking from a mug while leafing through a newspaper.
Sherlock: What are you typing?
Watson: Blog.
Sherlock: About?
Watson: Us.
Sherlock: You mean me.
Watson: Why?
Sherlock: Well, you’re typing a lot.
Sherlock: Right then.  So, what have we got?
Over a period of many weeks, people are coming to 221B to consult with Sherlock.
MAN: My wife seems to be spending a very long time at the office.
Sherlock: Boring.
WOMAN: I think my husband might be having an affair.
Sherlock: Yes.
CREEPY GUY : She’s not my real aunt. She’s been replaced – I know she has. I know human ash.
Sherlock: Leave.
BUSINESSMAN: We are prepared to offer any sum of money you care to mention for the recovery of these files.
Sherlock: Boring.
GEEKY YOUNG MAN: We have this website. It explains the true meaning of comic books, ’cause people miss a lot of the themes.
GEEKY YOUNG MAN: But then all the comic books started coming true.
Sherlock: Oh. Interesting.
Later, John is sitting in his chair and updating his blog again. He has entitled the entry “The Geek Interpreter”. Sherlock leans over his shoulder.
Sherlock: Geek interpreter. What’s that?
Watson: It’s the title.
Sherlock: What does it need a title for?
Later, they’re at the morgue at Bart’s. Sherlock is using his magnifier to look at a woman’s body lying on the table. John is standing at the other side of the table and Detective Inspector Lestrade is nearby.
Sherlock: Do people actually read your blog?
Watson: Where d’you think our clients come from?
Sherlock: I have a website.
Watson: In which you enumerate two hundred and forty different types of tobacco ash. Nobody’s reading your website.
Watson: Right then: dyed blonde hair; no obvious cause of death except for these speckles, whatever they are.
Later, back at the flat, John is updating his blog again. Sherlock walks past eating a piece of toast. He stops and looks at the title for the entry.
Sherlock: Oh, for God’s sakes!
Watson: What?
Sherlock: “The Speckled Blonde”?!
Two little girls are sitting together on one of the dining chairs in the flat as Sherlock paces.
LITTLE GIRL: They wouldn’t let us see Granddad when he was d*ad. Is that ’cause he’d gone to heaven?
Sherlock: People don’t really go to heaven when they die. They’re taken to a special room and b*rned.
Watson: Sherlock ...
Lestrade is leading Sherlock and John across some open ground.
LESTRADE: There was a plane crash in Dusseldorf yesterday. Everyone d*ad.
Sherlock: Suspected t*rror1st b*mb. We do watch the news.
Watson: You said, “Boring,” and turned over.
LESTRADE : Well, according to the flight details, this man was checked in on board. Inside his coat he’s got a stub from his boarding pass, napkins from the flight, even one of those special biscuits. Here’s his passport stamped in Berlin Airport. So this man should have d*ed in a plane crash in Germany yesterday but instead he’s in a car boot in Southwark.
Watson: Lucky escape
LESTRADE : Any ideas?
Sherlock: Eight, so far.
Sherlock: Okay, four ideas.
. Standing up, he gazes up into the sky.)
Sherlock: Maybe two ideas.
Back at the flat, Sherlock – wearing heavy protective gloves and safety glasses and carrying a blowtorch in one hand and a glass container of green liquid in the other – has come to the living room table to look at John’s latest blog entry which is entitled “Sherlock Holmes baffled”.
Sherlock: No, no, no, don’t mention the unsolved ones.
Watson: People want to know you’re human.
Sherlock: Why?
Watson: ’Cause they’re interested.
Sherlock: No they’re not. Why are they?
Watson: Look at that.
Watson: One thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five.
Sherlock: Sorry, what?
Watson: I re-set that counter last night. This blog has had nearly two thousand hits in the last eight hours. This is your living, Sherlock – not two hundred and forty different types of tobacco ash.
Sherlock: Two hundred and forty-three.
THEATRE. Sherlock and John are walking across the stage of a theatre while police officers mill around nearby.
Sherlock: So, what’s this one? “Belly Button m*rder”?
Watson: “The Navel Treatment”?
Sherlock: Eurgh!
LESTRADE: There’s a lot of press outside, guys.
Sherlock: Well, they won’t be interested in us.
LESTRADE: Yeah, that was before you were an internet phenomenon. A couple of them specifically wanted photographs of you two.
Sherlock: For God’s sake!
Sherlock: John.
Sherlock: Cover your face and walk fast.
LESTRADE: Still, it’s good for the public image, a big case like this.
Sherlock: I’m a private detective. The last thing I need is a public image.
where the text of the newspaper articles has been transcribed.])
IRENE : Hello. I think it’s time, don’t you?
221B BAKER STREET. Mrs Hudson picks up a mug and an almost empty bottle of milk from the mantelpiece and walks into the kitchen, tutting in exasperation at the mess in there. Putting the mug onto the table she takes the milk across to the fridge door and opens it, recoiling from the smell emanating from inside. Putting the milk into the fridge door she picks up the offending smelly item and drops it into the bin, then pulls open the salad crisper at the bottom and takes out a clear plastic bag from it. Peering at the contents, she cringes as she realises what’s inside.
MRS HUDSON: Ooh dear! Thumbs!
MAN: The door was ... the door was ...
MRS HUDSON: Boys! You’ve got another one!
MRS HUDSON: Ooh!
Later the man – whose name is Phil – has regained consciousness and is sitting on one of the dining table chairs in the middle of the lounge. He is staring rather blankly in front of him. John is sitting on the sofa behind him and Sherlock is out of sight but presumably pacing.
Sherlock: Tell us from the start. Don’t be boring.
PHIL : Hey! Are you okay?
PHIL : Excuse me! Are you all right?
Many hours later a crime scene has been set up at the riverside. A young police officer brings a mobile phone over to Detective Inspector Carter.
POLICE OFFICER: Sir. A phone call for you.
CARTER : Carter.
LESTRADE: Have you heard of Sherlock Holmes?
CARTER: Who?
LESTRADE: Well, you’re about to meet him now. This is your case. It’s entirely up to you. This is just friendly advice, but give Sherlock five minutes on your crime scene and listen to everything that he has to say. And as far as possible, try not to punch him.
POLICE OFFICER: Okay.
POLICE OFFICER: Sir, this gentleman says he needs to speak to you.
CARTER: Yes, I know.  Sherlock Holmes.
Watson: John Watson. Are you set up for Wi-Fi?
221B. Yawning, Sherlock wanders out from the hallway behind the kitchen and strolls into the kitchen wearing only a sheet wrapped around him.
Watson: You realise this is a tiny bit humiliating?
Sherlock: It’s okay, I’m fine.
Sherlock: Now, show me to the stream.
Watson: I didn’t really mean for you.
Sherlock: Look, this is a six.
Sherlock: There’s no point in my leaving the flat for anything less than a seven. We agreed. Now, go back. Show me the grass.
Watson: When did we agree that?
Sherlock: We agreed it yesterday. Stop!
Sherlock: Closer.
Watson: I wasn’t even at home yesterday. I was in Dublin.
Sherlock: Well, it’s hardly my fault you weren’t listening.
Sherlock: SHUT UP!
Watson: D’you just carry on talking when I’m away?
Sherlock: I don’t know. How often are you away? Now, show me the car that backfired.
Watson: It’s there.
Sherlock: That’s the one that made the noise, yes?
Watson: Yeah. And if you’re thinking g*n, there wasn’t one. He wasn’t sh*t; he was k*lled by a single blow to the back of the head from a blunt instrument which then magically disappeared along with the k*ller. That’s gotta be an eight at least.
CARTER: You’ve got two more minutes, then I want to know more about the driver.
Sherlock: Oh, forget him. He’s an idiot. Why else would he think himself a suspect?
CARTER: I think he’s a suspect!
Sherlock: Pass me over.
Watson: All right, but there’s a Mute button and I will use it.
Sherlock: Up a bit! I’m not talking from down ’ere!
Watson: Okay, just take it, take it.
Sherlock: Having driven to an isolated location and successfully committed a crime without a single witness, why would he then call the police and consult a detective? Fair play?
CARTER: He’s trying to be clever. It’s over-confidence.
Sherlock: Did you see him? Morbidly obese, the undisguised halitosis of a single man living on his own, the right sleeve of an internet p*rn addict and the breathing pattern of an untreated heart condition. Low self-esteem, tiny IQ and a limited life expectancy – and you think he’s an audacious criminal mastermind?!
Sherlock: Don’t worry – this is just stupid.
PHIL : What did you say? Heart what?
Sherlock: Go to the stream.
CARTER: What’s in the stream?
Sherlock: Go and see.
MRS HUDSON: Sherlock! You weren’t answering your doorbell!
PLUMMER: His room’s through the back. Get him some clothes.
Sherlock: Who the hell are you?
PLUMMER: Sorry, Mr. Holmes. You’re coming with us.
Watson: Sherlock, what’s going on? What’s happening?
Watson: I’ve lost him. I don’t know what ...
POLICE OFFICER: Doctor Watson?
Watson: Yeah.
POLICE OFFICER: It’s for you.
Watson: Okay, thanks.
POLICE OFFICER: Uh, no, sir. The helicopter.
Back at 221B, Plummer’s colleague has collected a pile of clothes and a pair of shoes and puts them down onto the table in front of Sherlock, who raises his eyebrows and shrugs disinterestedly.
PLUMMER: Please, Mr. Holmes. Where you’re going, you’ll want to be dressed.
Looking at his clothes: Suit £700
Glancing at his breast pocket and the area where a p*stol would be if Plummer was carrying one: Unarmed
Thumbnail: Manicured
Forehead: Office worker
The way his hands are folded in front of him: Right handed
Looking down to his shoes: Indoor worker
Seeing some wiry hairs on the cuff of his trouser leg: Small dog
Seeing a mark higher up the same trouser leg: Two small dogs
Seeing more hairs on the other trouser leg: Three small dogs
Sherlock: Oh, I know exactly where I’m going.
Some time later, sitting beside the pilot, John frowns and looks down as the helicopter flies over London. As it approaches Buckingham Palace the pilot begins to speak into his comms.
Not long afterwards, John has been shown into an enormous ornate hall with massive crystal chandeliers hanging from the ceiling. He looks around for a moment, then follows his escort who gestures him to a nearby room before walking away. On a small round table in the middle of the room is the pile of clothes and shoes which had been put down in front of Sherlock earlier. There is a sofa either side of the table and sitting on the left-hand one is Sherlock, still wrapped in his sheet. He looks across to John calmly. John holds out his hands in a “What the hell?!” gesture. Sherlock shrugs disinterestedly and looks away again. Nodding in a resigned way, John walks slowly into the room, then sits down on the sofa beside his friend. He gazes in front of himself for a moment, chewing back a giggle, looks around the room again and then looks at Sherlock, peering closely at his sheet and particularly the section wrapped around his backside. He turns his head away again.
Watson: Are you wearing any pants?
Sherlock: No.
Watson: Okay.
Watson: At Buckingham Palace, fine.  Oh, I’m seriously fighting an impulse to steal an ashtray.
Watson: What are we doing here, Sherlock? Seriously, what?
Sherlock: I don’t know.
Watson: Here to see the Queen?
Sherlock: Oh, apparently yes.
MYCROFT: Just once, can you two behave like grown-ups?
Watson: We solve crimes, I blog about it and he forgets his pants, so I wouldn’t hold out too much hope.
Sherlock: I was in the middle of a case, Mycroft.
MYCROFT: What, the hiker and the backfire? I glanced at the police report. Bit obvious, surely?
Sherlock: Transparent.
MYCROFT: Time to move on, then.
MYCROFT: We are in Buckingham Palace, the very heart of the British nation.  Sherlock Holmes, put your trousers on.
Sherlock: What for?
MYCROFT: Your client.
Sherlock: And my client is?
EQUERRY: Illustrious ...
EQUERRY: ... in the extreme.
EQUERRY: And remaining – I have to inform you – entirely anonymous.
EQUERRY: Mycroft!
MYCROFT: Harry.
MYCROFT: May I just apologise for the state of my little brother?
EQUERRY: Full-time occupation, I imagine.
EQUERRY: And this must be Doctor John Watson, formerly of the Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers.
Watson: Hello, yes.
EQUERRY: My employer is a tremendous fan of your blog.
Watson: Your employer?
EQUERRY: Particularly enjoyed the one about the aluminium crutch.
Watson: Thank you!
EQUERRY : And Mr. Holmes the younger. You look taller in your photographs.
Sherlock: I take the precaution of a good coat and a short friend.
Sherlock: Mycroft, I don’t do anonymous clients. I’m used to mystery at one end of my cases. Both ends is too much work.
Sherlock: Good morning.
MYCROFT: This is a matter of national importance. Grow up.
Sherlock: Get off my sheet!
MYCROFT: Or what?
Sherlock: Or I’ll just walk away.
MYCROFT: I’ll let you.
Watson: Boys, please. Not here.
Sherlock: Who. Is. My. Client?
MYCROFT: Take a look at where you’re standing and make a deduction. You are to be engaged by the highest in the land. Now for God’s sake ...
MYCROFT : ... put your clothes on!
Some time later, Sherlock has dressed and is sitting on the sofa again beside John. Mycroft and the equerry sit on the opposite sofa. Mycroft is pouring tea from a teapot. Following the old-fashioned superstition that only one person in the household should pour the tea, and that person is “being mother”, he looks at the equerry and smiles.
MYCROFT: I’ll be mother.
Sherlock: And there is a whole childhood in a nutshell.
EQUERRY: My employer has a problem.
MYCROFT: A matter has come to light of an extremely delicate and potentially criminal nature, and in this hour of need, dear brother, your name has arisen.
Sherlock: Why? You have a police force of sorts, even a marginally Secret Service. Why come to me?
EQUERRY: People do come to you for help, don’t they, Mr. Holmes?
Sherlock: Not, to date, anyone with a Navy.
MYCROFT: This is a matter of the highest security, and therefore of trust.
Watson: You don’t trust your own Secret Service?
MYCROFT: Naturally not. They all spy on people for money.
EQUERRY: I do think we have a timetable.
MYCROFT: Yes, of course. Um ...
MYCROFT: What do you know about this woman?
Sherlock: Nothing whatsoever.
MYCROFT: Then you should be paying more attention.
MYCROFT: She’s been at the centre of two political scandals in the last year, and recently ended the marriage of a prominent novelist by having an affair with both participants separately.
Sherlock: You know I don’t concern myself with trivia. Who is she?
MYCROFT: Irene Adler, professionally known as The Woman.
Watson: Professionally?
MYCROFT: There are many names for what she does. She prefers ‘dominatrix’.
Sherlock: Dominatrix.
MYCROFT: Don’t be alarmed. It’s to do with sex.
Sherlock: Sex doesn’t alarm me.
MYCROFT : How would you know?
MYCROFT: She provides – shall we say – recreational scolding for those who enjoy that sort of thing and are prepared to pay for it.  These are all from her website.
Sherlock: And I assume this Adler woman has some compromising photographs.
EQUERRY: You’re very quick, Mr. Holmes.
Sherlock: Hardly a difficult deduction. Photographs of whom?
EQUERRY: A person of significance to my employer. We’d prefer not to say any more at this time.
Watson: You can’t tell us anything?
MYCROFT: I can tell you it’s a young person.
MYCROFT: A young female person.
Sherlock: How many photographs?
MYCROFT: A considerable number, apparently.
Sherlock: Do Miss Adler and this young female person appear in these photographs together?
MYCROFT: Yes, they do.
Sherlock: And I assume in a number of compromising scenarios.
MYCROFT: An imaginative range, we are assured.
Sherlock: John, you might want to put that cup back in your saucer now.
EQUERRY: Can you help us, Mr. Holmes?
Sherlock: How?
EQUERRY: Will you take the case?
Sherlock: What case? Pay her, now and in full. As Miss Adler remarks in her masthead, “Know when you are beaten”.
MYCROFT: She doesn’t want anything.
MYCROFT: She got in touch, she informed us that the photographs existed, she indicated that she had no intention to use them to extort either money or favour.
Sherlock: Oh, a power play. A power play with the most powerful family in Britain. Now that is a dominatrix. Ooh, this is getting rather fun, isn’t it?
Watson: Sherlock ...
Sherlock: Hmm.
Sherlock: Where is she?
MYCROFT: Uh, in London currently. She’s staying ...
Sherlock: Text me the details. I’ll be in touch by the end of the day.
EQUERRY: Do you really think you’ll have news by then?
Sherlock: No, I think I’ll have the photographs.
EQUERRY: One can only hope you’re as good as you seem to think.
Dog Lover
Public School
Horse Rider
Early Riser
Left Side Of Bed
Non-Smoker
Father Half Welsh
Keen Reader
Tea Drinker
Sherlock: I’ll need some equipment, of course.
MYCROFT: Anything you require. I’ll have it sent to ...
Sherlock: Can I have a box of matches?
EQUERRY: I’m sorry?
Sherlock: Or your cigarette lighter. Either will do.
EQUERRY: I don’t smoke.
Sherlock: No, I know you don’t, but your employer does.
EQUERRY: We have kept a lot of people successfully in the dark about this little fact, Mr. Holmes.
Sherlock: I’m not the Commonwealth.
Watson: And that’s as modest as he gets. Pleasure to meet you.
Sherlock: Laters!
Not long afterwards, the boys are in a taxi.
Watson: Okay, the smoking. How did you know?
Sherlock: The evidence was right under your nose, John. As ever, you see but do not observe.
Watson: Observe what?
Sherlock: The ashtray.
IRENE: Kate!
IRENE: We’re going to have a visitor. I’ll need a bit of time to get ready.
KATE: A long time?
IRENE: Ages!
Later, wearing a see-through negligee over her knickers and stockings, Irene opens the doors to her enormous walk-in wardrobe and walks inside, running her fingers along her outfits as she decides what to wear.
At 221B, John sits in the living room as – on the other side of the kitchen – Sherlock hurls clothes around his bedroom. With the door open, the noise is distracting and finally John looks up from what he’s reading.
Watson: What are you doing?
Sherlock: Going into battle, John. I need the right armour.
Sherlock: No.
At her house, Irene is looking at herself in a full-length mirror, turning side-on to look at the glittery dark purple cocktail dress she’s wearing.
IRENE: Nah.
KATE : Works for me.
IRENE: Everything works on you.
TAXI. Sherlock and John are on the move. Sherlock is wearing his usual coat and scarf.
Watson: So, what’s the plan?
Sherlock: We know her address.
Watson: What, just ring her doorbell?
Sherlock: Exactly.
Sherlock: Just here, please.
Watson: You didn’t even change your clothes.
Sherlock: Then it’s time to add a splash of colour.
At her house, Irene is doing the same thing as Kate carefully applies make-up to her eyes.
Nearby, the boys have got out of the taxi and Sherlock leads John down a narrow street, pulling his scarf off as he goes. Eventually he stops and turns around to face John.
Watson: Are we here?
Sherlock: Two streets away, but this’ll do.
Watson: For what?
Sherlock: Punch me in the face.
Kate runs her thumb over Irene’s mouth, wondering what colour to apply.
KATE: Shade?
IRENE: Blood.
Watson: Punch you?
Sherlock: Yes. Punch me, in the face.  Didn’t you hear me?
Watson: I always hear ‘punch me in the face’ when you’re speaking, but it’s usually sub-text.
Sherlock: Oh, for God’s sakes.
Watson: Ow!
Sherlock: Thank you. That was – that was ...
Slowly Kate paints blood-red lipstick onto Irene’s mouth.
In the street, Sherlock is doubled over with John on his back half–strangling him. John’s face is contorted with pent-up anger and frustration, and Sherlock is struggling to pull his hands off him.
Sherlock: Okay! I think we’re done now, John.
Watson: You wanna remember, Sherlock: I was a soldier. I k*lled people.
Sherlock: You were a doctor!
Watson: I had bad days!
Kate finishes painting Irene’s lips.
KATE: What are you gonna wear?
IRENE: My battle dress.
KATE: Ooh! Lucky boy!
KATE : Hello?
Sherlock: Ooh! Um, sorry to disturb you. Um, I’ve just been att*cked, um, and, um, I think they ... they took my wallet and, um, and my phone. Umm, please could you help me?
KATE: I can phone the police if you want.
Sherlock: Thank you, thank you! Could you, please?
Sherlock: Oh, would you ... would you mind if I just waited here, just until they come? Thank you. Thank you so much.
Sherlock: Thank you.  Er, ooh!
Watson: I – I saw it all happen. It’s okay, I’m a doctor.
Watson: Now, have you got a first aid kit?
KATE: In the kitchen.
KATE: Please.
Sherlock: Oh! Thank you!
Watson: Thank you.
Very shortly afterwards Sherlock has taken off his coat and is sitting on a sofa in the elegant sitting room and looking around. As he hears footsteps approaching, he sits up a little and holds the handkerchief to his cheek.
IRENE : Hello. Sorry to hear that you’ve been hurt. I don’t think Kate caught your name.
Sherlock: I’m so sorry. I’m ...
IRENE: Oh, it’s always hard to remember an alias when you’ve had a fright, isn’t it?
IRENE: There now – we’re both defrocked ...
IRENE: ... Mr. Sherlock Holmes.
Sherlock: Miss Adler, I presume.
IRENE : Look at those cheekbones. I could cut myself slapping that face. Would you like me to try?
Watson: Right, this should do it.
Watson: I’ve missed something, haven’t I?
IRENE: Please, sit down.
IRENE: Oh, if you’d like some tea I can call the maid.
Sherlock: I had some at the Palace.
IRENE: I know.
Sherlock: Clearly.
Watson: I had a tea, too, at the Palace, if anyone’s interested.
(Sherlock’s eyes are still fixed on Irene as he attempts to make as many deductions as he can about her. His final analysis is as follows:
?
Bewildered, he turns and looks at John and starts to analyse him.)
Looking at his neckline: Two Day Shirt
Looking at his lower face: Electric not blade
Looking at the bottom of his jeans and his shoes: Date tonight
Looking at John’s right eyebrow: Hasn’t phoned sister
Looking at John’s lower lip: New toothbrush
Looking just underneath his eyes: Night out with Stamford
(Relieved that he hasn’t had a brain embolism, Sherlock slowly turns his head and looks at Irene again. Narrowing his eyes slightly, he applies all his deductive reasoning as she smiles confidently back at him, and he quickly comes to the following conclusion:
?
He frowns.)
IRENE: D’you know the big problem with a disguise, Mr. Holmes?
IRENE: However hard you try, it’s always a self-portrait.
Sherlock: You think I’m a vicar with a bleeding face?
IRENE: No, I think you’re damaged, delusional and believe in a higher power. In your case, it’s yourself.
IRENE: Oh, and somebody loves you. Why, if I had to punch that face, I’d avoid your nose and teeth too.
Watson: Could you put something on, please? Er, anything at all.  A napkin.
IRENE: Why? Are you feeling exposed?
Sherlock: I don’t think John knows where to look.
IRENE: No, I think he knows exactly where.
IRENE : I’m not sure about you.
Sherlock: If I wanted to look at naked women I’d borrow John’s laptop.
Watson: You do borrow my laptop.
Sherlock: I confiscate it.
IRENE : Well, never mind. We’ve got better things to talk about. Now tell me – I need to know.
IRENE: How was it done?
Sherlock: What?
IRENE : The hiker with the bashed-in head. How was he k*lled?
Sherlock: That’s not why I’m here.
IRENE: No, no, no, you’re here for the photographs but that’s never gonna happen, and since we’re here just chatting anyway ...
Watson: That story’s not been on the news yet. How do you know about it?
IRENE: I know one of the policemen. Well, I know what he likes.
Watson: Oh.  And you like policemen?
IRENE: I like detective stories – and detectives. Brainy’s the new sexy.
Sherlock: Positionofthecar ...
Sherlock: Er, the position of the car relative to the hiker at the time of the backfire. That and the fact that the death blow was to the back of the head. That’s all you need to know.
IRENE: Okay, tell me: how was he m*rder?
Sherlock: He wasn’t.
IRENE: You don’t think it was m*rder?
Sherlock: I know it wasn’t.
IRENE: How?
Sherlock: The same way that I know the victim was an excellent sportsman recently returned from foreign travel and that the photographs I’m looking for are in this room.
IRENE: Okay, but how?
Sherlock: So they are in this room. Thank you. John, man the door. Let no-one in.
Sherlock: Two men alone in the countryside several yards apart, and one car.
IRENE: Oh. I – I thought you were looking for the photos now.
Sherlock: No, no. Looking takes ages. I’m just going to find them but you’re moderately clever and we’ve got a moment, so let’s pass the time.
Sherlock: Two men, a car, and nobody else.
Sherlock: The driver’s trying to fix his engine. Getting nowhere.
Sherlock: And the hiker’s taking a moment, looking at the sky.
Sherlock: Watching the birds?
Sherlock: Any moment now, something’s gonna happen. What?
IRENE: The hiker’s going to die.
Sherlock: No, that’s the result. What’s going to happen?
IRENE: I don’t understand.
Sherlock: Oh, well, try to.
IRENE: Why?
Sherlock: Because you cater to the whims of the pathetic and take your clothes off to make an impression. Stop boring me and think. It’s the new sexy.
IRENE: The car’s going to backfire.
Sherlock: There’s going to be a loud noise.
IRENE: So, what?
Sherlock: Oh, noises are important. Noises can tell you everything. For instance ...
Sherlock: Thank you. On hearing a smoke alarm, a mother would look towards her child. Amazing how f*re exposes our priorities.
Sherlock: Really hope you don’t have a baby in here.
Sherlock: All right, John, you can turn it off now.
Sherlock: I said you can turn it off now.
Watson: Give me a minute.
Watson: Thank you.
Sherlock: Hmm. Should always use gloves with these things, you know. Heaviest oil deposit’s always on the first key used – that’s quite clearly the three – but after that the sequence is almost impossible to read. I’d say from the make that it’s a six digit code. Can’t be your birthday – no disrespect but clearly you were born in the eighties; the eight’s barely used, so ...
IRENE: I’d tell you the code right now but you know what? I already have.
IRENE: Think.
NEILSON: Hands behind your head.  On the floor. Keep it still.
Watson: Sorry, Sherlock.
NEILSON: Ms Adler, on the floor.
Sherlock: Don’t you want me on the floor too?
NEILSON: No, sir, I want you to open the safe.
Sherlock: American. Interesting. Why would you care?
NEILSON: Sir, the safe, now, please.
Sherlock: I don’t know the code.
NEILSON: We’ve been listening. She said she told you.
Sherlock: Well, if you’d been listening, you’d know she didn’t.
NEILSON: I’m assuming I missed something. From your reputation, I’m assuming you didn’t, Mr. Holmes.
Watson: For God’s sake. She’s the one who knows the code. Ask her.
NEILSON: Yes, sir. She also knows the code that automatically calls the police and sets off the burglar alarm. I’ve learned not to trust this woman.
IRENE: Mr. Holmes doesn’t ...
NEILSON: Shut up. One more word out of you – just one – and I will decorate that wall with the insides of your head. That, for me, will not be a hardship.
NEILSON: Mr. Archer. At the count of three, sh**t Doctor Watson.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: I don’t have the code.
NEILSON: One.
Sherlock: I don’t know the code.
NEILSON: Two.
Sherlock: She didn’t tell me.  I don’t know it!
NEILSON: I’m prepared to believe you any second now.
NEILSON: Three.
Sherlock: No, stop!
NEILSON: Thank you, Mr. Holmes. Open it, please.
Sherlock: Vatican cameos.
Sherlock: D’you mind?
IRENE: Not at all.
Watson: He’s d*ad.
IRENE : Thank you. You were very observant.
Watson: Observant?
IRENE: I’m flattered.
Sherlock: Don’t be.
Watson: Flattered?
Sherlock: There’ll be more of them. They’ll be keeping a eye on the building.
, he hurries out of the room as John tucks Archer’s g*n into the back of his jeans and follows him. Irene goes over to the safe and stares into it wide-eyed. Sherlock trots out onto the street with John behind him.)
Watson: We should call the police.
Sherlock: Yes.
Sherlock: On their way.
Watson: For God’s sake!
Sherlock: Oh shut up. It’s quick.
Sherlock: Check the rest of the house. See how they got in.
Sherlock: Well, that’s the knighthood in the bag.
IRENE: Ah. And that’s mine.
Sherlock: All the photographs are on here, I presume.
IRENE: I have copies, of course.
Sherlock: No you don’t. You’ll have permanently disabled any kind of uplink or connection. Unless the contents of this phone are provably unique, you wouldn’t be able to sell them.
IRENE : Who said I’m selling?
Sherlock: Well, why would they be interested? Whatever’s on the phone, it’s clearly not just photographs.
IRENE: That camera phone is my life, Mr. Holmes. I’d die before I let you take it.  It’s my protection.
Watson: Sherlock!
Sherlock: It was.
Watson: Must have come in this way.
Sherlock: Clearly.
Watson: It’s all right. She’s just out cold.
IRENE: Well, God knows she’s used to that. There’s a back door. Better check it, Doctor Watson.
Watson: Sure.
Sherlock: You’re very calm.
Sherlock: Well, your booby trap did just k*ll a man.
IRENE: He would have k*lled me. It was self defence in advance.
Sherlock: What? What is that? What ...?
IRENE: Give it to me. Now. Give it to me.
Sherlock: No.
IRENE: Give it to me.
Sherlock: No.
IRENE: Oh, for goodness’ sake.
IRENE: Drop it.
IRENE: I ...  ... said ...  ... drop it.
IRENE: Ah. Thank you, dear.
IRENE: Now tell that sweet little posh thing the pictures are safe with me. They’re not for blackmail, just for insurance.
IRENE: Besides, I might want to see her again.
IRENE: Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It’s been a pleasure. Don’t spoil it.
IRENE: This is how I want you to remember me. The woman who b*at you.
IRENE: Goodnight, Mr. Sherlock Holmes.
Watson: Jesus. What are you doing?
IRENE: He’ll sleep for a few hours. Make sure he doesn’t choke on his own vomit. It makes for a very unattractive corpse.
Watson: What’s this? What have you given him? Sherlock!
IRENE: He’ll be fine. I’ve used it on loads of my friends.
Watson: Sherlock, can you hear me?
IRENE: You know, I was wrong about him. He did know where to look.
Watson: For what? What are you talking about?
IRENE: The key code to my safe.
Watson: What was it?
IRENE: Shall I tell him?
IRENE: My measurements.
IRENE: Got it!
IRENE: Oh, shush now. Don’t get up. I’ll do the talking.
IRENE: So the car’s about to backfire ...
IRENE: ... and the hiker, he’s staring at the sky. Now, you said he could be watching birds but he wasn’t, was he?
IRENE: He was watching another kind of flying thing. The car backfires and the hiker turns to look ...
IRENE: ... which was his big mistake.
IRENE: By the time the driver looks up, the hiker’s already d*ad. What he doesn’t see is what k*lled him because it’s already being washed downstream.
IRENE: An accomplished sportsman recently returned from foreign travel with ... a boomerang. You got that from one look? Definitely the new sexy.
Sherlock: I ...
Sherlock: I ...
IRENE: Hush now.
IRENE: It’s okay. I’m only returning your coat.
Sherlock: John?
Sherlock: John!
Watson: You okay?
Sherlock: How did I get here?
Watson: Well, I don’t suppose you remember much. You weren’t making a lot of sense. Oh, I should warn you: I think Lestrade filmed you on his phone.
Sherlock: Where is she?
Watson: Where’s who?
Sherlock: The woman. That woman.
Watson: What woman?
Sherlock: The woman. The woman woman!
Watson: What, Irene Adler? She got away. No-one saw her.
Watson: She wasn’t here, Sherlock.
Watson: What are you ...? What ...? No, no, no, no.
Watson: Back to bed.  You’ll be fine in the morning. Just sleep.
Sherlock: Of course I’ll be fine. I am fine. I’m absolutely fine.
Watson: Yes, you’re great. Now I’ll be next door if you need me.
Sherlock: Why would I need you?
Watson: No reason at all.
NEXT MORNING. Sherlock – now fully recovered – and John are sitting at the table in the living room. John is eating breakfast while Sherlock is reading a newspaper. Mycroft stands nearby.
Sherlock: The photographs are perfectly safe.
MYCROFT: In the hands of a fugitive sex worker.
Sherlock: She’s not interested in blackmail. She wants ... protection for some reason. I take it you’ve stood down the police investigation into the sh**ting at her house?
MYCROFT: How can we do anything while she has the photographs? Our hands are tied.
Sherlock: She’d applaud your choice of words. You see how this works: that camera phone is her “Get out of jail free” card. You have to leave her alone. Treat her like royalty, Mycroft.
Watson: Though not the way she treats royalty.
Watson: What was that?
Sherlock: Text.
Watson: But what was that noise?
Sherlock: Did you know there were other people after her too, Mycroft, before you sent John and I in there? CIA-trained K*llers, at an excellent guess.
Watson: Yeah, thanks for that, Mycroft.
MRS HUDSON : It’s a disgrace, sending your little brother into danger like that. Family is all we have in the end, Mycroft Holmes.
MYCROFT: Oh, shut up, Mrs Hudson.
SHERLOCK and Watson: MYCROFT!
MYCROFT: Apologies.
MRS HUDSON: Thank you.
Sherlock: Though do, in fact, shut up.
MRS HUDSON: Ooh. It’s a bit rude, that noise, isn’t it?
Sherlock: There’s nothing you can do and nothing she will do as far as I can see.
MYCROFT: I can put maximum surveillance on her.
Sherlock: Why bother? You can follow her on Twitter. I believe her user name is “TheWhipHand”.
MYCROFT: Yes. Most amusing.
MYCROFT: ’Scuse me.
MYCROFT : Hello.
Watson: Why does your phone make that noise?
Sherlock: What noise?
Watson: That noise – the one it just made.
Sherlock: It’s a text alert. It means I’ve got a text.
Watson: Hmm. Your texts don’t usually make that noise.
Sherlock: Well, somebody got hold of the phone and apparently, as a joke, personalised their text alert noise.
Watson: Hmm. So every time they text you ...
Sherlock: It would seem so.
MRS HUDSON: Could you turn that phone down a bit? At my time of life.
Watson: I’m wondering who could have got hold of your phone, because it would have been in your coat, wouldn’t it?
Sherlock: I’ll leave you to your deductions.
Watson: I’m not stupid, you know.
Sherlock: Where do you get that idea?
MYCROFT: Bond Air is go, that’s decided. Check with the Coventry lot. Talk later.
Sherlock: What else does she have?
Sherlock: Irene Adler. The Americans wouldn’t be interested in her for a couple of compromising photographs. There’s more.
Sherlock: Much more.
Sherlock: Something big’s coming, isn’t it?
MYCROFT: Irene Adler is no longer any concern of yours. From now on you will stay out of this.
Sherlock: Oh, will I?
MYCROFT: Yes, Sherlock, you will.
MYCROFT: Now, if you’ll excuse me, I have a long and arduous apology to make to a very old friend.
Sherlock: Do give her my love.
Time passes and now it’s Christmas. Fairy lights are strung up around the window frame of the flat and it’s snowing outside. Inside, the living room is festooned with Christmas decorations and cards, and Sherlock is walking around playing “We Wish You a Merry Christmas” on his violin. Mrs Hudson is sitting in his chair with a glass in her hand, watching him happily. Lestrade is standing at the entrance to the kitchen holding a wine glass, and John – wearing a very snazzy Christmassy jumper – walks across the room with a cup and saucer in one hand and a bottle of beer in the other. As Sherlock finishes the tune with a fancy flourish, Lestrade whistles in appreciation.
MRS HUDSON: Lovely! Sherlock, that was lovely!
Watson: Marvellous!
MRS HUDSON: I wish you could have worn the antlers!
Sherlock: Some things are best left to the imagination, Mrs Hudson.
Watson: Mrs H.
Sherlock: No thank you, Sarah.
Watson: Uh, no, no, no, no, no. He’s not good with names.
Sherlock: No-no-no, I can get this.
Sherlock: No, Sarah was the doctor; and then there was the one with the spots; and then the one with the nose; and then ... who was after the boring teacher?
JEANETTE: Nobody.
Sherlock: Jeanette!  Ah, process of elimination.
Sherlock: Oh, dear Lord.
MOLLY: Hello, everyone. Sorry, hello.
MOLLY: Er, it said on the door just to come up.
Sherlock: Oh, everybody’s saying hullo to each other. How wonderful
Watson: Let me, er ... holy Mary!
LESTRADE: Wow!
MOLLY: Having a Christmas drinkies, then?
Sherlock: No stopping them, apparently.
MRS HUDSON: It’s the one day of the year where the boys have to be nice to me, so it’s almost worth it!
Watson: Have a seat.
Sherlock: John?
Watson: Mmm?
LESTRADE: Molly?  Want a drink?
Sherlock: The counter on your blog: still says one thousand eight hundred and ninety-five.
Watson: Ooh, no! Christmas is cancelled!
Sherlock: And you’ve got a photograph of me wearing that hat!
Watson: People like the hat.
Sherlock: No they don’t. What people?
MOLLY: How’s the hip?
MRS HUDSON: Ooh, it’s atrocious, but thanks for asking.
MOLLY: I’ve seen much worse, but then I do post-mortems.
MOLLY: Oh, God. Sorry.
Sherlock: Don’t make jokes, Molly.
MOLLY: No. Sorry.
MOLLY: Thank you. I wasn’t expecting to see you. I thought you were gonna be in Dorset for Christmas.
LESTRADE: That’s first thing in the morning. Me and the wife – we’re back together. It’s all sorted.
Sherlock: No, she’s sleeping with a P.E. teacher.
MOLLY: And John. I hear you’re off to your sister’s, is that right?
Watson: Yeah.
MOLLY: Sherlock was complaining.
MOLLY: ... saying.
Watson: First time ever, she’s cleaned up her act. She’s off the booze.
Sherlock: Nope.
Watson: Shut up, Sherlock.
Sherlock: I see you’ve got a new boyfriend, Molly, and you’re serious about him.
MOLLY: Sorry, what?
Sherlock: In fact, you’re seeing him this very night and giving him a gift.
Watson: Take a day off.
LESTRADE : Shut up and have a drink.
Sherlock: Oh, come on. Surely you’ve all seen the present at the top of the bag – perfectly wrapped with a bow. All the others are slapdash at best.
Sherlock: It’s for someone special, then.
Sherlock: The shade of red echoes her lipstick – either an unconscious association or one that she’s deliberately trying to encourage. Either way, Miss Hooper has lurrrve on her mind. The fact that she’s serious about him is clear from the fact she’s giving him a gift at all.
Sherlock: That would suggest long-term hopes, however forlorn; and that she’s seeing him tonight is evident from her make-up and what she’s wearing.
Sherlock: Obviously trying to compensate for the size of her mouth and breasts ...
(He trails off as he looks down at the writing on the tag. Written in red ink, the greeting reads:
Dearest Sherlock
Love Molly xxx
Sherlock gazes at the words in shock as he realises the terrible thing that he has just done. Molly gasps quietly.)
MOLLY: You always say such horrible things. Every time. Always. Always.
Sherlock: I am sorry. Forgive me.
Sherlock: Merry Christmas, Molly Hooper.
MOLLY: No! That wasn’t ... I – I didn’t ...
Sherlock: No, it was me.
LESTRADE: My God, really?!
MOLLY: What?!
Sherlock: My phone.
Watson: Fifty-seven?
Sherlock: Sorry, what?
Watson: Fifty-seven of those texts – the ones I’ve heard.
Sherlock: Thrilling that you’ve been counting.
Sherlock: ’Scuse me.
Watson: What – what’s up, Sherlock?
Sherlock: I said excuse me.
Watson: D’you ever reply?
MYCROFT: Oh dear Lord. We’re not going to have Christmas phone calls now, are we? Have they passed a new law?
Sherlock: I think you’re going to find Irene Adler tonight.
MYCROFT: We already know where she is. As you were kind enough to point out, it hardly matters.
Sherlock: No, I mean you’re going to find her d*ad.
Watson: You okay?
Sherlock: Yes.
ST BARTHOLOMEW’S HOSPITAL. Sherlock and Mycroft walk to the morgue and go inside. Molly is waiting inside wearing her lab coat, and a body is lying on the table covered with a sheet.
MYCROFT: The only one that fitted the description. Had her brought here – your home from home.
Sherlock: You didn’t need to come in, Molly.
MOLLY: That’s okay. Everyone else was busy with ... Christmas.
MOLLY: The face is a bit, sort of, bashed up, so it might be a bit difficult.
MYCROFT: That’s her, isn’t it?
Sherlock: Show me the rest of her.
Sherlock: That’s her.
MYCROFT: Thank you, Miss Hooper.
MOLLY: Who is she? How did Sherlock recognise her from ... not her face?
MYCROFT: Just the one.
Sherlock: Why?
MYCROFT: Merry Christmas.
Sherlock: Smoking indoors – isn’t there one of those ... one of those law things?
MYCROFT: We’re in a morgue. There’s only so much damage you can do.
MYCROFT: How did you know she was d*ad?
Sherlock: She had an item in her possession, one she said her life depended on. She chose to give it up.
MYCROFT: Where is this item now?
Sherlock: Look at them. They all care so much. Do you ever wonder if there’s something wrong with us?
MYCROFT: All lives end. All hearts are broken.  Caring is not an advantage, Sherlock.
Sherlock: This is low tar.
MYCROFT: Well, you barely knew her.
Sherlock: Huh!
Sherlock: Merry Christmas, Mycroft.
MYCROFT: And a happy New Year.
MYCROFT: He’s on his way.  Have you found anything?
Watson: No. Did he take the cigarette?
MYCROFT: Yes.
Watson: Shit.  He’s coming. Ten minutes.
MRS HUDSON: There’s nothing in the bedroom.
Watson: Looks like he’s clean. We’ve tried all the usual places. Are you sure tonight’s a danger night?
MYCROFT: No, but then I never am. You have to stay with him, John.
Watson: I’ve got plans.
MYCROFT: No.
Watson: Mycroft. M...
Watson: I am really sorry.
JEANETTE: You know, my friends are so wrong about you.
Watson: Hmm?
JEANETTE: You’re a great boyfriend.
Watson: Okay, that’s good. I mean, I always thought I was great.
JEANETTE: And Sherlock Holmes is a very lucky man.
Watson: Jeanette, please.
JEANETTE : No, I mean it. It’s heart-warming. You’ll do anything for him – and he can’t even tell your girlfriends apart.
Watson: No, I’ll do anything for you. Just tell me what it is I’m not doing. Tell me!
JEANETTE: Don’t make me compete with Sherlock Holmes.
Watson: I’ll walk your dog for you. Hey, I’ve said it now. I’ll even walk your dog ...
JEANETTE: I don’t have a dog!
Watson: No, because that was ... the last one. Okay.
JEANETTE: Jesus!
Watson: I’ll call you.
JEANETTE: No!
Watson: Okay.
MRS HUDSON: That really wasn’t very good, was it?
Shortly afterwards, John is sitting in his chair reading as Sherlock comes up the stairs and stops in the doorway of the living room. John looks round at him.
Watson: Oh, hi.
Watson: You okay?
Sherlock: Hope you didn’t mess up my sock index this time.
MORNING. 221B. Sherlock is standing at the window in the living room and playing a sad lament on his violin. John walks into the room and sighs as he sees him. Mrs Hudson walks across to the table and picks up the plates, looking at John pointedly as they both realise that Sherlock hasn’t touched his breakfast. John hums resignedly as he takes his jacket from the back of the chair and puts it on. Sherlock stops playing and picks up a pencil to make a notation on his music.
MRS HUDSON: Lovely tune, Sherlock. Haven’t heard that one before.
Watson: You composing?
Sherlock: Helps me to think.
Watson: What are you thinking about?
Sherlock: The counter on your blog is still stuck at one thousand eight hundred and ninety-five.
Watson: Yeah, it’s faulty. Can’t seem to fix it.
Sherlock: Faulty – or you’ve been hacked and it’s a message.
Watson: Hmm?
Sherlock: Just faulty.
Watson: Right.
Watson: Right. Well, I’m going out for a bit.
Watson: Listen: has he ever had any kind of ...  ... girlfriend, boyfriend, a relationship, ever?
MRS HUDSON: I don’t know.
Watson: How can we not know?
MRS HUDSON: He’s Sherlock. How will we ever know what goes on in that funny old head?
Watson: Right. See ya.
WOMAN: John?
Watson: Yeah.
Watson: Hello.
Watson: Hello!
WOMAN : So, any plans for New Year tonight?
Watson: Er, nothing fixed. Nothing I couldn’t heartlessly abandon. You have any ideas?
WOMAN: One.
Watson: You know, Mycroft could just phone me, if he didn’t have this bloody stupid power complex.
Watson: Couldn’t we just go to a café? Sherlock doesn’t follow me everywhere.
WOMAN: Through there.
WOMAN: He’s on his way. You were right – he thinks it’s Mycroft.
Watson: He’s writing sad music; doesn’t eat; barely talks – only to correct the television.
Watson: I’d say he was heartbroken but, er, well, he’s Sherlock. He does all that anyw...
IRENE: Hello, Doctor Watson.
Watson: Tell him you’re alive.
IRENE : He’d come after me.
Watson: I’ll come after you if you don’t.
IRENE: Mmm, I believe you.
Watson: You were d*ad on a slab. It was definitely you.
IRENE: DNA tests are only as good as the records you keep.
Watson: And I bet you know the record-keeper.
IRENE: I know what he likes, and I needed to disappear.
Watson: Then how come I can see you, and I don’t even want to?
IRENE: Look, I made a mistake. I sent something to Sherlock for safe-keeping and now I need it back, so I need your help.
Watson: No.
IRENE: It’s for his own safety.
Watson: So’s this: tell him you’re alive.
IRENE: I can’t.
Watson: Fine. I’ll tell him, and I still won’t help you.
IRENE: What do I say?
Watson: What do you normally say? You’ve texted him a lot.
IRENE: Just the usual stuff.
Watson: There is no ‘usual’ in this case.
IRENE: “Good morning”; “I like your funny hat”; “I’m sad tonight. Let’s have dinner” ...
IRENE: ... “You looked sexy on ‘Crimewatch’. Let’s have dinner”; “I’m not hungry, let’s have dinner”.
Watson: You ... flirted with Sherlock Holmes?!
IRENE : At him. He never replies.
Watson: No, Sherlock always replies – to everything. He’s Mr. Punchline. He will outlive God trying to have the last word.
IRENE: Does that make me special?
Watson: ... I don’t know. Maybe.
IRENE: Are you jealous?
Watson: We’re not a couple.
IRENE: Yes you are. There ...
IRENE: “I’m not d*ad. Let’s have dinner.”
Watson: Who ... who the hell knows about Sherlock Holmes, but – for the record – if anyone out there still cares, I’m not actually gay.
IRENE: Well, I am. Look at us both.
IRENE: I don’t think so, do you?
Some time later, Sherlock is walking down Baker Street towards his flat, his gaze distant and lost. As he arrives at the front door of 221B and turns to put his key in the door, his expression sharpens as he realises that the door has been jemmied open. Slowly pushing the door open, he goes inside and carefully puts his hand onto the opaque glass window of the interior door before also pushing that one open and stepping through into the hall. Immediately he sees that the door to 221A is ajar, and partway down the hall is a plastic bucket. He takes a quick glance at the various items inside the bucket and sees that they’re cleaning materials: a pair of rubber gloves, a duster, a spray can of what is probably screen and telephone sanitizer, a toilet brush and a bottle of disinfectant, and a couple of other items. Sherlock steps closer to the stairs and sees a couple of scuff marks on the wall just above the risers. He instantly realises that one of the marks was made by someone awkwardly walking backwards up the stairs and having to feel their way with their feet, while the second was made by someone following the first person while facing forwards but being thrown off-balance by something. Looking more closely at the wall he sees a small indentation in the wallpaper. His gaze becomes more intense as he deduces that it was formed by someone dragging their hand along the wall, clawing at it in a desperate attempt to stop themselves being hauled backwards up the stairs. The depth of the nail mark can only have been made by someone with fairly long nails, and now Sherlock knows that the person being dragged was Mrs Hudson. Slowly he raises his head as he visualises her struggling as she is half-pulled and half-carried upstairs by a couple of men as a third man precedes them. In his mind, he hears her panic-stricken protests of, “Stop it!” at her assailants before she cries out Sherlock’s name in terror and anguish.)
MRS HUDSON: Oh, Sherlock, Sherlock!
Sherlock: Don’t snivel, Mrs Hudson. It’ll do nothing to impede the flight of a b*llet.
Sherlock: What a tender world that would be.
MRS HUDSON : Oh, please, sorry, Sherlock.
NEILSON: I believe you have something that we want, Mr. Holmes.
Sherlock: Then why don’t you ask for it?
MRS HUDSON : Sher...
NEILSON: I’ve been asking this one. She doesn’t seem to know anything.
NEILSON: But you know what I’m asking for, don’t you, Mr. Holmes?
(Sherlock looks a little higher and sees a cut on her right cheek. His eyes flick across to Neilson’s right hand holding the p*stol. He has a silver ring on his third finger and there is blood on it. Sherlock raises his head and looks directly at Neilson – but he isn’t deducing him. In very rapid succession he is picking out target points on his body:
Carotid Artery
Skull
Eyes
His eyes drop to Neilson’s arm and chest:
Artery
Lungs
Ribs
He raises his eyes to Neilson’s again.)
Sherlock: I believe I do.
MRS HUDSON: Oh, please, Sherlock.
Sherlock: First, get rid of your boys.
NEILSON: Why?
Sherlock: I dislike being outnumbered. It makes for too much stupid in the room.
NEILSON: You two, go to the car.
Sherlock: Then get into the car and drive away.  Don’t try to trick me. You know who I am. It doesn’t work.
Sherlock: Next, you can stop pointing that g*n at me.
NEILSON: So you can point a g*n at me?
Sherlock: I’m unarmed.
NEILSON: Mind if I check?
Sherlock: Oh, I insist.
Sherlock: Moron.
MRS HUDSON: Oh, thank you.
Sherlock: You’re all right now, you’re all right.
MRS HUDSON: Yes.
Not long afterwards, the black car pulls up outside 221 and John gets out. The car drives away and he walks to the door, then stops as he sees a handwritten note attached underneath the knocker. He looks around the street for a moment, then pushes the door open and goes inside. Written on the note is:
CRIME IN PROGRESS
PLEASE DISTURB
Watson: What’s going on?
Watson: Jeez. What the hell is happening?
Sherlock: Mrs Hudson’s been att*cked by an American. I’m restoring balance to the universe.
Watson: Oh, Mrs Hudson, my God. Are you all right?  Jesus, what have they done to you?
MRS HUDSON : Oh, I’m just being so silly.
Watson: No, no.
Sherlock: Downstairs. Take her downstairs and look after her.
Watson: All right, it’s all right. I’ll have a look at that.
MRS HUDSON : I’m fine, I’m fine.
Watson: Are you gonna tell me what’s going on?
Sherlock: I expect so. Now go.
Sherlock: Lestrade. We’ve had a break-in at Baker Street. Send your least irritating officers and an ambulance.  Oh, no-no-no-no-no, we’re fine. No, it’s the, uh, it’s the burglar. He’s got himself rather badly injured.
Sherlock: Oh, a few broken ribs, fractured skull ... suspected punctured lung.
Sherlock: He fell out of a window.
Downstairs in Mrs Hudson’s kitchen, she and John are standing by the sink as he gently applies some antiseptic to the cut on her cheek. She flinches.
MRS HUDSON: Ooh, it stings.
MRS HUDSON: Ooh. That was right on my bins.
Some time later, it’s fully dark outside and an ambulance is only now pulling away from 221. Sherlock is standing outside Speedy’s café with Lestrade.
LESTRADE: And exactly how many times did he fall out the window?
Sherlock: It’s all a bit of a blur, Detective Inspector. I lost count.
Mrs H still looks very shaken.)
Watson: She’ll have to sleep upstairs in our flat tonight. We need to look after her.
MRS HUDSON: No.
Sherlock: Of course, but she’s fine.
Watson: No, she’s not. Look at her.
Watson: She’s got to take some time away from Baker Street. She can go and stay with her sister. Doctor’s orders.
Sherlock: Don’t be absurd.
Watson: She’s in shock, for God’s sake, and all over some bloody stupid camera phone. Where is it, anyway?
Sherlock: Safest place I know.
MRS HUDSON: You left it in the pocket of your second-best dressing gown, you clot.  I managed to sneak it out when they thought I was having a cry.
Sherlock: Thank you.
Sherlock: Shame on you, John Watson.
Watson: Shame on me?!
Sherlock: Mrs Hudson leave Baker Street?
Sherlock: England would fall.
Later, the boys are back upstairs. John fixes himself a drink in the kitchen and then comes into the living room as Sherlock takes his coat off.
Watson: Where is it now?
Sherlock: Where no-one will look.
Watson: Whatever’s on that phone is more than just pictures.
Sherlock: Yes, it is.
Watson: So, she’s alive then. How are we feeling about that?
Sherlock: Happy New Year, John.
Watson: Do you think you’ll be seeing her again?
(Not far away, within sight of St Paul’s Cathedral, Irene is walking along the street when her phone trills a text alert. Taking the phone from her bag and checking the message, she sees that it reads:
Happy New Year
SH
She looks at the message for a long time before continuing onwards.)
DAY TIME. ST BART’S. In the Molly lab, Sherlock is looking at an X-ray on a computer screen which is showing the interior parts of a phone. Molly is nearby. He leans closer to the screen and sees four small round dark areas scattered around the phone. He looks exasperated.
MOLLY: Is that a phone?
Sherlock: It’s a camera phone.
MOLLY: And you’re X-raying it?
Sherlock: Yes, I am.
MOLLY: Whose phone is it?
Sherlock: A woman’s.
MOLLY: Your girlfriend?
Sherlock: You think she’s my girlfriend because I’m X-raying her possessions?
MOLLY : Well, we all do silly things.
Sherlock: Yes.
Sherlock: They do, don’t they? Very silly.
Sherlock: She sent this to my address, and she loves to play games.
MOLLY: She does?
SOME MONTHS LATER. 221B. Sherlock reaches the top of the stairs and then stops abruptly outside the kitchen door. He sniffs deeply. Taking a couple more deep breaths, he turns and looks into the kitchen, then walks across to the window and checks it as he realises that it is open. Turning and sniffing again, he starts to walk slowly towards his bedroom just as the downstairs door slams and feet start trotting up the stairs. Reaching his room, he pushes the door open as John comes into the kitchen with bags of shopping. Sherlock walks into the bedroom and turns to stand and look down at the bed. John notices him.
Watson: Sherlock ...
Sherlock: We have a client.
Watson: What, in your bedroom?!
Watson: Ohhh.
Some time later Irene has changed into one of Sherlock’s dressing gowns and is sitting in his chair in the living room. The boys are sitting at the table looking at her.
Sherlock: So who’s after you?
IRENE: People who want to k*ll me.
Sherlock: Who’s that?
IRENE: K*llers.
Watson: It would help if you were a tiny bit more specific.
Sherlock: So you faked your own death in order to get ahead of them.
IRENE: It worked for a while.
Sherlock: Except you let John know that you were alive, and therefore me.
IRENE: I knew you’d keep my secret.
Sherlock: You couldn’t.
IRENE: But you did, didn’t you? Where’s my camera phone?
Watson: It’s not here. We’re not stupid.
IRENE: Then what have you done with it? If they’ve guessed you’ve got it, they’ll be watching you.
Sherlock: If they’ve been watching me, they’ll know that I took a safety deposit box at a bank on the Strand a few months ago.
IRENE: I need it.
Watson: Well, we can’t just go and get it, can we?
Watson: Molly Hooper. She could collect it, take it to Bart’s; then one of your homeless network could bring it here, leave it in the café, and one of the boys downstairs could bring it up the back.
Sherlock: Very good, John. Excellent plan, with intelligent precautions.
Watson: Thank you.  So, why don’t ... Oh, for ...
Sherlock: So what do you keep on here – in general, I mean?
IRENE: Pictures, information, anything I might find useful.
Watson: What, for blackmail?
IRENE: For protection. I make my way in the world; I misbehave. I like to know people will be on my side exactly when I need them to be.
Sherlock: So how do you acquire this information?
IRENE: I told you – I misbehave.
Sherlock: But you’ve acquired something that’s more danger than protection. Do you know what it is?
IRENE: Yes, but I don’t understand it.
Sherlock: I assumed. Show me.
Sherlock: The passcode.
IRENE: It’s not working.
Sherlock: No, because it’s a duplicate that I had made, into which you’ve just entered the numbers one oh five eight.
Sherlock: I assumed you’d choose something more specific than that but, um, thanks anyway.
IRENE: I told you that camera phone was my life. I know when it’s in my hand.
Sherlock: Oh, you’re rather good.
IRENE : You’re not so bad.
Watson: Hamish.
Watson: John Hamish Watson – just if you were looking for baby names.
IRENE: There was a man – an MOD official. I knew what he liked.
IRENE: One of the things he liked was showing off. He told me this email was going to save the world. He didn’t know it, but I photographed it.  He was a bit tied up at the time. It’s a bit small on that screen – can you read it?
(Sherlock sits down on the other side of the table to John and narrows his eyes at the photograph. The top of the email – possibly the subject line – reads: 007 Confirmed allocation
Underneath in smaller print is a string of numbers:
4C12C45F13E13G60A60B61F34G34J60D12H33K34K
Sherlock: Yes.
IRENE: A code, obviously. I had one of the best cryptographers in the country take a look at it – though he was mostly upside down, as I recall. Couldn’t figure it out.
IRENE: What can you do, Mr. Holmes?
IRENE: Go on. Impress a girl.
Sherlock: There’s a margin for error but I’m pretty sure there’s a Seven Forty-Seven leaving Heathrow tomorrow at six thirty in the evening for Baltimore. Apparently it’s going to save the world. Not sure how that can be true but give me a moment; I’ve only been on the case for eight seconds.
Sherlock: Oh, come on. It’s not code. These are seat allocations on a passenger jet. Look: there’s no letter ‘I’ because it can be mistaken for a ‘1’; no letters past ‘K’ – the width of the plane is the limit. The numbers always appear randomly and not in sequence but the letters have little runs of sequence all over the place – families and couples sitting together. Only a Jumbo is wide enough to need the letter ‘K’ or rows past fifty-five, which is why there’s always an upstairs. There’s a row thirteen, which eliminates the more superstitious airlines. Then there’s the style of the flight number – zero zero seven – that eliminates a few more; and assuming a British point of origin, which would be logical considering the original source of the information and assuming from the increased pressure on you lately that the crisis is imminent, the only flight that matches all the criteria and departs within the week is the six thirty to Baltimore tomorrow evening from Heathrow Airport.
Sherlock: Please don’t feel obliged to tell me that was remarkable or amazing. John’s expressed the same thought in every possible variant available to the English language.
IRENE : I would have you right here on this desk until you begged for mercy twice.
Sherlock: John, please can you check those flight schedules; see if I’m right?
Watson: Uh-huh. I’m on it, yeah.
Sherlock: I’ve never begged for mercy in my life.
IRENE : Twice.
Watson: Uh, yeah, you’re right. Uh, flight double oh seven.
Sherlock: What did you say?
Watson: You’re right.
Sherlock: No, no, no, after that. What did you say after that?
Watson: Double oh seven. Flight double oh seven.
Sherlock: Double oh seven, double oh seven, double oh seven, double oh seven ...
Sherlock: ... something ... something connected to double oh seven ... What?
Sherlock: Double oh seven, double oh seven, what, what, something, what?
MYCROFT: Bond Air is go.
MYCROFT: Bond Air is go. ... Bond Air is go.
(As the words continue to echo in Sherlock’s mind, at Westminster Jim is typing a message onto his phone:
Jumbo Jet. Dear me Mr Holmes, dear me.
He presses Send and the message wings its way up into the air. As if watching it go, Jim raises his eyes towards Big Ben, the very image of the seat of the British government, and bl*ws a long and loud raspberry at it.)
NIGHT TIME. 221B. Sherlock sits in his armchair gently plucking the strings of his violin. In his mind he can still hear Mycroft’s phone call.
MYCROFT: Bond Air is go, that’s decided. Check with the Coventry lot.
Sherlock: Coventry.
IRENE: I’ve never been. Is it nice?
Sherlock: Where’s John?
IRENE: He went out a couple of hours ago.
Sherlock: I was just talking to him.
IRENE : He said you do that. What’s Coventry got to do with anything?
Sherlock: It’s a story, probably not true. In the Second World w*r, the Allies knew that Coventry was going to get b*mb because they’d broken the German code but they didn’t want the Germans to know that they’d broken the code, so they let it happen anyway.
IRENE: Have you ever had anyone?
Sherlock: Sorry?
IRENE: And when I say “had”, I’m being indelicate.
Sherlock: I don’t understand.
IRENE: Well, I’ll be delicate then.
IRENE: Let’s have dinner.
Sherlock: Why?
IRENE: Might be hungry.
Sherlock: I’m not.
IRENE: Good.
Sherlock: Why would I want to have dinner if I wasn’t hungry?
IRENE : Oh, Mr. Holmes ...
IRENE: ... if it was the end of the world, if this was the very last night, would you have dinner with me?
MRS HUDSON : Sherlock!
IRENE : Too late.
Sherlock: That’s not the end of the world; that’s Mrs Hudson.
MRS HUDSON: Sherlock, this man was at the door. Is the bell still not working?
MRS HUDSON: He sh*t it.
Sherlock: Have you come to take me away again?
PLUMMER: Yes, Mr. Holmes.
Sherlock: Well, I decline.
PLUMMER : I don’t think you do.
*channelling D.I. Lestrade* OK, everybody. Done here.
So finally it’s finished.  It took way longer than I ever thought – I’ve been transcribing 42-minute episodes for the past eight years, and each one normally took about ten hours to complete and so I thought that this would take roughly double the time. Yeah, right – I wish!
At this rate, I’m afraid that I cannot promise that a transcript for The Hounds of Baskerville will even be finished by the time The Reichenbach Fall airs. I’ll try, but there’s a lot of stuff happening in Real Life, including the imminent arrival of Verityburns, Atlinmerrick and Anarion at my house, and I need to do some housework!
Anyway, onwards ... Oh, and thank you for all your kind words. It really has made the whole effort worthwhile.
And my thanks once again to the adorable verityburns, without whose patient and meticulous proof-reading  this probably wouldn’t have been completed until the middle of next week.
Sherlock, Season 2, episode 1: A Scandal in Belgravia part 4
Transcript by Ariane DeVere aka Callie Sullivan.
Polite request: If you take extracts from this transcript for use elsewhere, and especially if you repost my own words, it would be kind if you would acknowledge the source and/or give a link back to this transcript. Thanks.
In the car, Sherlock gets out the plane ticket again, then tells Plummer what he has deduced.
Sherlock: There’s going to be a b*mb on a passenger jet. The British and American governments know about it but rather than expose the source of that information they’re going to let it happen. The plane will blow up. Coventry all over again. The wheel turns. Nothing is ever new.
Sherlock: Well, you’re lookin’ all better. How ya feelin’?
NEILSON: Like putting a b*llet in your brain ... sir.
NEILSON: They’d pin a medal on me if I did ...
NEILSON : ... sir.
MYCROFT: The Coventry conundrum.
MYCROFT: What do you think of my solution?
MYCROFT: The flight of the d*ad.
Sherlock: The plane bl*ws up mid-air. Mission accomplished for the t*rrorists. Hundreds of casualties, but nobody dies.
MYCROFT: Neat, don’t you think?
MYCROFT: You’ve been stumbling round the fringes of this one for ages – or were you too bored to notice the pattern?
LITTLE GIRL: They wouldn’t let us see Granddad when he was d*ad.
CREEPY GUY: She’s not my real aunt. I know human ash.
MYCROFT: We ran a similar project with the Germans a while back, though I believe one of our passengers didn’t make the flight.
MYCROFT: But that’s the deceased for you – late, in every sense of the word.
Sherlock: How’s the plane going to fly?  Of course: unmanned aircraft. Hardly new.
MYCROFT: It doesn’t fly. It will never fly. This entire project is cancelled. The t*rror1st cells have been informed that we know about the b*mb. We can’t fool them now. We’ve lost everything. One fragment of one email, and months and years of planning finished.
Sherlock: Your MOD man.
MYCROFT: That’s all it takes: one lonely naïve man desperate to show off, and a woman clever enough to make him feel special.
Sherlock: Hmm. You should screen your defence people more carefully.
MYCROFT : I’m not talking about the MOD man, Sherlock; I’m talking about you.
MYCROFT : The damsel in distress.  In the end, are you really so obvious? Because this was textbook: the promise of love, the pain of loss, the joy of redemption; then give him a puzzle ...  ... and watch him dance.
Sherlock: Don’t be absurd.
MYCROFT: Absurd? How quickly did you decipher that email for her? Was it the full minute, or were you really eager to impress?
IRENE : I think it was less than five seconds.
MYCROFT : I drove you into her path.  I’m sorry.  I didn’t know.
IRENE: Mr. Holmes, I think we need to talk.
Sherlock: So do I. There are a number of aspects I’m still not quite clear on.
IRENE : Not you, Junior. You’re done now.
IRENE: There’s more ... loads more. On this phone I’ve got secrets, pictures and scandals that could topple your whole world. You have no idea how much havoc I can cause and exactly one way to stop me – unless you want to tell your masters that your biggest security leak is your own little brother.
Some time later Mycroft has brought Irene and Sherlock to his residence/office. The older brother sits at the dining table with Irene seated opposite him. Sherlock is in the armchair near the fireplace a few yards away, half turned away from the pair of them. The fingers on his right hand are repeatedly clenching as he listens to the other two speak. Mycroft points down at the camera phone which is lying on the table in front of him. There is no aggression or thr*at in his voice as he speaks.
MYCROFT: We have people who can get into this.
IRENE: I tested that theory for you. I let Sherlock Holmes try it for six months.
IRENE: Sherlock, dear, tell him what you found when you X-rayed my camera phone.
Sherlock: There are four additional units wired inside the casing, I suspect containing acid or a small amount of expl*sive.
Sherlock: Any attempt to open the casing will burn the hard drive.
IRENE: expl*sive.  It’s more me.
MYCROFT : Some data is always recoverable.
IRENE: Take that risk?
MYCROFT: You have a passcode to open this. I deeply regret to say we have people who can extract it from you.
IRENE : Sherlock?
Sherlock: There will be two passcodes: one to open the phone, one to burn the drive. Even under duress you can’t know which one she’s given you and there will be no point in a second attempt.
IRENE: He’s good, isn’t he? I should have him on a leash – in fact, I might.
MYCROFT: We destroy this, then. No-one has the information.
IRENE: Fine. Good idea ... unless there are lives of British citizens depending on the information you’re about to burn.
MYCROFT: Are there?
IRENE: Telling you would be playing fair. I’m not playing any more.
IRENE: A list of my requests; and some ideas about my protection once they’re granted.
IRENE: I’d say it wouldn’t blow much of a hole in the wealth of the nation – but then I’d be lying.
IRENE: I imagine you’d like to sleep on it.
MYCROFT : Thank you, yes.
IRENE: Too bad.
IRENE : Off you pop and talk to people.
MYCROFT: You’ve been very ... thorough. I wish our lot were half as good as you.
IRENE: I can’t take all the credit. Had a bit of help.
IRENE: Oh, Jim Moriarty sends his love.
MYCROFT: Yes, he’s been in touch. Seems desperate for my attention ...  ... which I’m sure can be arranged.
IRENE: I had all this stuff, never knew what to do with it. Thank God for the consultant criminal. Gave me a lot of advice about how to play the Holmes boys. D’you know what he calls you?  The Ice Man ...  ... and the Virgin.
IRENE: Didn’t even ask for anything. I think he just likes to cause trouble. Now that’s my kind of man.
MYCROFT: And here you are, the dominatrix who brought a nation to its knees.
MYCROFT: Nicely played.
Sherlock: No.
IRENE: Sorry?
Sherlock: I said no. Very very close, but no.
Sherlock: You got carried away. The game was too elaborate. You were enjoying yourself too much.
IRENE: No such thing as too much.
Sherlock: Oh, enjoying the thrill of the chase is fine, craving the distraction of the game – I sympathise entirely – but sentiment? Sentiment is a chemical defect found in the losing side.
IRENE: Sentiment? What are you talking about?
Sherlock: You.
IRENE : Oh dear God. Look at the poor man. You don’t actually think I was interested in you? Why? Because you’re the great Sherlock Holmes, the clever detective in the funny hat?
Sherlock: No.
Sherlock: Because I took your pulse.
Sherlock: Elevated; your pupils dilated.
Sherlock: I imagine John Watson thinks love’s a mystery to me but the chemistry is incredibly simple, and very destructive.
Sherlock: When we first met, you told me that disguise is always a self-portrait. How true of you: the combination to your safe – your measurements; but this ...  ... this is far more intimate.
Sherlock: This is your heart ...
Sherlock: ... and you should never let it rule your head.
Sherlock: You could have chosen any random number and walked out of here today with everything you’ve worked for ...
Sherlock: ... but you just couldn’t resist it, could you?
Sherlock: I’ve always assumed that love is a dangerous disadvantage ...
Sherlock: Thank you for the final proof.
IRENE : Everything I said: it’s not real.  I was just playing the game.
Sherlock: I know.
Sherlock: And this is just losing.
(Slowly he turns the phone towards her and shows her the screen. She looks down at it, tears spilling from her eyes as she reads the sequence which says:
I AM
SHER
LOCKED
She gazes down at the screen in despair for a few seconds, then Sherlock lifts the phone away and holds it out towards Mycroft even as the phone unlocks and presents its menu.)
Sherlock: There you are, brother. I hope the contents make up for any inconvenience I may have caused you tonight.
MYCROFT: I’m certain they will.
Sherlock: If you’re feeling kind, lock her up; otherwise let her go. I doubt she’ll survive long without her protection.
IRENE: Are you expecting me to beg?
Sherlock: Yes.
IRENE: Please.
IRENE: You’re right.
IRENE : I won’t even last six months.
Sherlock: Sorry about dinner.
BAKER STREET. It is pouring with rain. Outside Speedy’s café, Mycroft is standing under the protection of his umbrella, smoking a cigarette. He has a clear plastic wallet tucked under one arm and his briefcase is at his feet. John hurries towards home, hunched over and soaking wet because macho BAMFs like John Watson don’t take umbrellas with them. He sees Mycroft standing there and stops in surprise, then walks over to him.
Watson: You don’t smoke.
MYCROFT: I also don’t frequent cafés.
Watson: This the file on Irene Adler?
MYCROFT: Closed forever. I am about to go and inform my brother – or, if you prefer, you are – that she somehow got herself into a witness protection scheme in America. New name, new identity. She will survive – and thrive – but he will never see her again.
Watson: Why would he care? He despised her at the end. Won’t even mention her by name – just “The Woman”.
MYCROFT: Is that loathing, or a salute? One of a kind; the one woman who matters.
Watson: He’s not like that. He doesn’t feel things that way ... I don’t think.
MYCROFT: My brother has the brain of a scientist or a philosopher, yet he elects to be a detective. What might we deduce about his heart?
Watson: I don’t know.
MYCROFT: Neither do I ... but initially he wanted to be a pirate.
Watson: He’ll be okay with this witness protection, never seeing her again. He’ll be fine.
MYCROFT: I agree.  That’s why I decided to tell him that.
Watson: Instead of what?
MYCROFT: She’s d*ad. She was captured by a t*rror1st cell in Karachi two months ago and beheaded.
Watson: It’s definitely her? She’s done this before.
MYCROFT: I was thorough – this time. It would take Sherlock Holmes to fool me, and I don’t think he was on hand, do you?
MYCROFT: So ...  ...what should we tell Sherlock?
221B. Sherlock is sitting at the kitchen table looking into his microscope. As footsteps can be heard coming up the stairs, he speaks before John even comes into view.
Sherlock: Clearly you’ve got news.
Sherlock: If it’s about the Leeds triple m*rder, it was the gardener. Nobody noticed the earring.
Watson: Hi. Er, no, it’s, um ...  ... it’s about Irene Adler.
Sherlock: Oh? Something happened? Has she come back?
Watson: No, she’s, er ... I just bumped into Mycroft downstairs. He had to take a call.
Sherlock: Is she back in London?
Watson: No. She’s, er ...
Watson: She’s in America.
Sherlock: America?
Watson: Mmm-hmm. Got herself on a witness protection scheme, apparently. Dunno how she swung it, but, er, well, you know.
Sherlock: I know what?
Watson: Well, you won’t be able to see her again.
Sherlock: Why would I want to see her again?
Watson: Didn’t say you did.
Sherlock: Is that her file?
Watson: Yes. I was just gonna take it back to Mycroft.
Watson: Do you want to ...?
Sherlock: No.
Watson: Hmm.
Watson: Listen, actually ...
Sherlock: Oh, but I will have the camera phone, though.
Watson: There’s nothing on it any more. It’s been stripped.
Sherlock: I know, but I ...
Sherlock: ... I’ll still have it.
Watson: I’ve gotta give this back to Mycroft. You can’t keep it.
Watson: Sherlock, I have to give this to Mycroft. It’s the government’s now. I couldn’t even give ...
Sherlock: Please.
Sherlock: Thank you.
Watson: Well, I’d better take this back.
Sherlock: Yes.
Watson: Did she ever text you again, after ... all that?
Sherlock: Once, a few months ago.
Watson: What did she say?
Sherlock: “Goodbye, Mr. Holmes.”
Watson: Huh.
(He paces around in front of the kitchen door for a few seconds, wondering if there’s anything more he can say, then eventually turns and heads off down the stairs. As soon as he’s out of sight Sherlock raises his head and gazes across the room for a moment, then he reaches down to his own phone which is on the table and picks it up, calling up his saved messages. Walking into the living room, he scrolls through the messages sent by “The Woman”, all of which he has kept. They go on for a long time:
I’m not hungry, let’s have dinner.
Bored in a hotel. Join me. Let’s have dinner.
John’s blog is HILARIOUS. I think he likes you more than I do. Let’s have dinner.
I can see tower bridge and the moon from my room. Work out where I am and join me.
I saw you in the street today. You didn’t see me.
You do know that hat actually suits you, don’t you?
Oh for God’s sake. Let’s have dinner.
I like your funny hat.
I’m in Egypt talking to an idiot. Get on a plane, let’s have dinner.
You looked sexy on Crimewatch.
Even you have got to eat. Let’s have dinner.
BBC1 right now. You’ll laugh.
I’m thinking of sending you a Christmas present.
Mantelpiece.
I’m not d*ad. Let’s have dinner.
Then comes the one reply he sent to her:
Happy New Year
And at the bottom of the list is her last message to him:
Goodbye Mr Holmes
Reaching the living room window, he looks down at the final message for a long time before lifting his eyes and gazing out at the pouring rain.)
Flashback to  two months earlier in Karachi. It is night time and there is background noise of male voices shouting in a foreign language. Shaky camera footage eventually resolves into clearer resolution, revealing Irene kneeling on the ground in front of a military vehicle. She is dressed in black robes, her hair covered by a black headscarf, and is typing one-handed onto her phone. Standing to her right is a man holding a r*fle with one hand while he repeatedly gestures for her phone with the other. She ignores him, refusing to hand it over until she has finished her message, which reads:
Goodbye Mr Holmes
A couple of seconds later, an orgasmic female sigh fills the air. Irene’s eyes snap open and fill with hope as she turns her head to look at her executioner. His face is completely shrouded apart from his eyes, but a very recognisable blue-grey gaze meets her own.
Sherlock: When I say run, run!
In London in the present, Sherlock smiles at the memory, then chuckles to himself as he takes Irene’s camera phone from his pocket. Tossing it into the air and catching it again, he looks at it for a couple of seconds.
Sherlock: The Woman.
Sherlock: The Woman.
GRACE: Oh, hello.
GRACE: Are you all right?
GRACE: What is it, dear? Are you lost?
Twenty years later, the young boy’s screams are echoing in adult Henry’s ears. He looks around blankly as if he doesn’t know where he is or how he got there, then his face fills with horror as he realises that he is standing in the middle of a deep hollow in the woods. He starts to stumble away.
OPENING CREDITS.
BAKER STREET. As the door to 221B slams closed on someone who has just gone inside, the camera pans across to show two nodding dogs in the window of Speedy’s café. Upstairs in the flat, the living room door bursts open and Sherlock charges in, stopping just inside the room and slamming the end of a long pole down onto the ground. Sitting in his chair, John looks round and his eyes widen at the sight of his flatmate, who is wearing black trousers and a white shirt and whose arms, chest and face are covered with blood – far too much blood for it to be his own – and who is holding a harpoon. He looks round to John, breathing heavily.
Sherlock: Well, that was tedious.
Watson: You went on the Tube like that?!
Sherlock: None of the cabs would take me.
Later he is back in the room having cleaned himself up and changed into a clean shirt and trousers with one of his blue dressing gowns over the top. He is still carrying the harpoon and is pacing rapidly between the door and the window, looking round repeatedly at John as he sits in his chair flicking through the newspapers.
Sherlock: Nothing?
Watson: Military coup in Uganda.
Sherlock: Hmm.
Watson: Another photo of you with the, er ...
Watson: Oh, um, Cabinet reshuffle.
Sherlock: Nothing of importance?
Sherlock: Oh, God!
Sherlock: John, I need some. Get me some.
Watson: No.
Sherlock: Get me some.
Watson: No.  Cold turkey, we agreed, no matter what.
Watson: Anyway, you’ve paid everyone off, remember? No-one within a two mile radius’ll sell you any.
Sherlock: Stupid idea. Whose idea was that?
Sherlock: Mrs Hudson!
Watson: Look, Sherlock, you’re doing really well. Don’t give up now.
Sherlock: Tell me where they are. Please. Tell me.
Sherlock: Please.
Watson: Can’t help, sorry.
Sherlock: I’ll let you know next week’s lottery numbers.
Sherlock: Oh, it was worth a try.
MRS HUDSON: Ooh-ooh!
Sherlock: My secret supply: what have you done with my secret supply?
MRS HUDSON: Eh?
Sherlock: Cigarettes! What have you done with them? Where are they?
MRS HUDSON: You know you never let me touch your things!
MRS HUDSON: Ooh, chance would be a fine thing.
Sherlock: I thought you weren’t my housekeeper.
MRS HUDSON: I’m not.
MRS HUDSON: How about a nice cuppa, and perhaps you could put away your harpoon.
Sherlock: I need something stronger than tea. Seven per cent stronger.
Sherlock: You’ve been to see Mr. Chatterjee again.
MRS HUDSON: Pardon?
Sherlock: Sandwich shop. That’s a new dress, but there’s flour on the sleeve. You wouldn’t dress like that for baking.
Watson: Sherlock ...
Sherlock: Thumbnail: tiny traces of foil. Been at the scratch cards again. We all know where that leads, don’t we?
Sherlock: Mmm: Kasbah Nights. Pretty racy for first thing on a Monday morning, wouldn’t you agree? I’ve written a little blog on the identification of perfumes. It’s on the website – you should look it up.
MRS HUDSON : Please.
Sherlock: I wouldn’t pin your hopes on that cruise with Mr. Chatterjee. He’s got a wife in Doncaster  that nobody knows about.
Watson: Sherlock!
Sherlock: Well, nobody except me.
MRS HUDSON : I don’t know what you’re talking about, I really don’t.
Watson: What the bloody hell was all that about?
Sherlock: You don’t understand.
Watson: Go after her and apologise.
Sherlock: Apologise?
Watson: Mmm-hmm.
Sherlock: Oh, John, I envy you so much.
Watson: You envy me?
Sherlock: Your mind: it’s so placid, straightforward, barely used. Mine’s like an engine, racing out of control; a rocket tearing itself to pieces trapped on the launch pad.  I need a case!
Watson: You’ve just solved one! By harpooning a d*ad pig, apparently!
Sherlock: That was this morning!
Sherlock: When’s the next one?
Watson: Nothing on the website?
Sherlock: “Dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes. I can’t find Bluebell anywhere. Please please please can you help?”
Watson: Bluebell?
Sherlock: A rabbit, John!
Watson: Oh.
Sherlock: Ah, but there’s more! Before Bluebell disappeared, it turned luminous ...
Sherlock: ... “like a fairy” according to little Kirsty; then the next morning, Bluebell was gone! Hutch still locked, no sign of a forced entry ...
Sherlock: Ah! What am I saying? This is brilliant! Phone Lestrade. Tell him there’s an escaped rabbit.
Watson: Are you serious?
Sherlock: It’s this, or Cluedo.
Watson: Ah, no!
Watson: We are never playing that again!
Sherlock: Why not?
Watson: Because it’s not actually possible for the victim to have done it, Sherlock, that’s why.
Sherlock: Well, it was the only possible solution.
Watson: It’s not in the rules.
Sherlock: Then the rules are wrong!
Watson: Single ring.
Sherlock: Maximum pressure just under the half second.
JOHN and Sherlock: Client.
Not long afterwards, a recording of a documentary is playing on the TV. Sherlock has taken off the dressing gown and exchanged it for a jacket and is sitting in his chair. John has relocated to the dining table chair near Sherlock’s, and a man is sitting in John’s chair. The documentary footage shows scenes of Dartmoor. Sherlock instantly looks bored.
PRESENTER : Dartmoor. It’s always been a place of myth and legend, but is there something else lurking out here – something very real?
PRESENTER : Because Dartmoor’s also home to one of the government’s most secret of operations ...
(Sherlock’s eyes flick repeatedly between the screen and the man in John’s chair as the footage shows a large sign saying:
AUTHORISED PERSONNEL ONLY
YOU ARE NOW ENTERING A RESTRICTED AREA
BASKERVILLE
By this time Sherlock’s eyes are permanently fixed on the newcomer – who we now see is Henry Knight – as he watches the documentary anxiously.)
PRESENTER : ... the chemical and biological w*apon research centre which is said to be even more sensitive than Porton Down. Since the end of the Second World w*r, there’ve been persistent stories about the Baskerville experiments: genetic mutations, animals grown for the b*ttlefield. There are many who believe that within this compound, in the heart of this ancient wilderness, there are horrors beyond imagining. But the real question is: are all of them still inside?
HENRY: I was just a kid. It-it was on the moor.
”.)
HENRY: It was dark, but I know what I saw. I know what k*lled my father.
Sherlock: What did you see?
HENRY: Oh.  I ... I was just about to say.
Sherlock: Yes, in a TV interview. I prefer to do my own editing.
HENRY: Yes. Sorry, yes, of course. ’Scuse me.
Watson: In your own time.
Sherlock: But quite quickly.
HENRY: Do you know Dartmoor, Mr. Holmes?
Sherlock: No.
HENRY: It’s an amazing place. It’s like nowhere else. It’s sort of ... bleak but beautiful.
Sherlock: Mmm, not interested. Moving on.
HENRY: We used to go for walks, after my mum d*ed, my dad and me. Every evening we’d go out onto the moor.
Sherlock: Yes, good. Skipping to the night that your dad was violently k*lled. Where did that happen?
HENRY: There’s a place – it’s... it’s a sort of local landmark called Dewer’s Hollow.
HENRY: That’s an ancient name for the Devil.
Sherlock: So?
Watson: Did you see the Devil that night?
HENRY : Yes.
HENRY : It was huge. Coal-black fur, with red eyes.
HENRY : It got him, tore at him, tore him apart.
HENRY: I can’t remember anything else. They found me the next morning, just wandering on the moor. My dad’s body was never found.
Watson: Hmm.  Red eyes, coal-black fur, enormous: dog? Wolf?
Sherlock: Or a genetic experiment.
HENRY: Are you laughing at me, Mr. Holmes?
Sherlock: Why, are you joking?
HENRY: My dad was always going on about the things they were doing at Baskerville; about the type of monsters they were breeding there. People used to laugh at him. At least the TV people took me seriously.
Sherlock: And, I assume, did wonders for Devon tourism.
Watson: Yeah ...
Watson: Henry, whatever did happen to your father, it was twenty years ago. Why come to us now?
HENRY: I’m not sure you can help me, Mr. Holmes, since you find it all so funny.
Sherlock: Because of what happened last night.
Watson: Why, what happened last night?
HENRY: How ... how do you know?
Sherlock: I didn’t know; I noticed.
Sherlock: You came up from Devon on the first available train this morning. You had a disappointing breakfast and a cup of black coffee. The girl in the seat across the aisle fancied you. Although you were initially keen, you’ve now changed your mind. You are, however, extremely anxious to have your first cigarette of the day. Sit down, Mr. Knight, and do please smoke. I’d be delighted.
HENRY: How on earth did you notice all that?!
Watson: It’s not important ...
Sherlock: Punched-out holes where your ticket’s been checked ...
Watson: Not now, Sherlock.
Sherlock: Oh please. I’ve been cooped up in here for ages.
Watson: You’re just showing off.
Sherlock: Of course. I am a show-off. That’s what we do.
Sherlock: The train napkin that you used to mop up the spilled coffee: the strength of the stain shows that you didn’t take milk. There are traces of ketchup on it and round your lips and on your sleeve. Cooked breakfast – or the nearest thing those trains can manage. Probably a sandwich.
HENRY: How did you know it was disappointing?
Sherlock: Is there any other type of breakfast on a train? The girl – female handwriting’s quite distinctive. Wrote her phone number down on the napkin. I can tell from the angle she wrote at that she was sat across from you on the other side of the aisle. Later – after she got off, I imagine – you used the napkin to mop up your spilled coffee, accidentally smudging the numbers. You’ve been over the last four digits yourself with another pen, so you wanted to keep the number. Just now, though, you used the napkin to blow your nose. Maybe you’re not that into her after all. Then there’s the nicotine stains on your fingers ... your shaking fingers. I know the signs.
Sherlock: No chance to smoke one on the train; no time to roll one before you got a cab here.
Sherlock: It’s just after nine fifteen. You’re desperate. The first train from Exeter to London leaves at five forty-six a.m. You got the first one possible, so something important must have happened last night. Am I wrong?
HENRY: No.
HENRY : You’re right. You’re completely, exactly right. Bloody hell, I heard you were quick.
Sherlock: It’s my job.
Sherlock: Now shut up and smoke.
Watson: Um, Henry, your parents both d*ed and you were, what, seven years old?
HENRY: I know. That ... my ...
Watson: That must be a ... quite a trauma. Have you ever thought that maybe you invented this story, this ...
Watson: ... to account for it?
HENRY: That’s what Doctor Mortimer says.
Watson: Who?
Sherlock: His therapist.
HENRY : My therapist.
Sherlock: Obviously.
HENRY: Louise Mortimer. She’s the reason I came back to Dartmoor. She thinks I have to face my demons.
Sherlock: And what happened when you went back to Dewer’s Hollow last night, Henry? You went there on the advice of your therapist and now you’re consulting a detective. What did you see that changed everything?
HENRY: It’s a strange place, the Hollow.
HENRY: Makes you feel so cold inside, so afraid.
Sherlock: Yes, if I wanted poetry, I’d read John’s emails to his girlfriends. Much funnier.
Sherlock: What did you see?
HENRY: Footprints – on the exact spot where I saw my father torn apart.
Watson: Man’s or a woman’s?
HENRY: Neither. They were ...
Sherlock: Is that it? Nothing else. Footprints. Is that all?
HENRY: Yes, but they were ...
Sherlock: No, sorry, Doctor Mortimer wins. Childhood trauma masked by an invented memory. Boring! Goodbye, Mr. Knight. Thank you for smoking.
HENRY: No, but what about the footprints?
Sherlock: Oh, they’re probably paw prints; could be anything, therefore nothing.
Sherlock: Off to Devon with you; have a cream tea on me.
HENRY: Mr. Holmes, they were the footprints of a gigantic hound!
Sherlock: Say that again.
HENRY: I found the footprints; they were ...
Sherlock: No, no, no, your exact words. Repeat your exact words from a moment ago, exactly as you said them.
HENRY: Mr. Holmes, they were the footprints of a gigantic ... hound.
Sherlock: I’ll take the case.
Watson: Sorry, what?
Sherlock: Thank you for bringing this to my attention. It’s very promising.
Watson: No-no-no, sorry, what? A minute ago, footprints were boring; now they’re very promising?
Sherlock: It’s nothing to do with footprints. As ever, John, you weren’t listening. Baskerville: ever heard of it?
Watson: Vaguely. It’s very hush-hush.
Sherlock: Sounds like a good place to start.
HENRY: Ah! You’ll come down, then?
Sherlock: No, I can’t leave London at the moment. Far too busy. Don’t worry – putting my best man onto it.
Sherlock: Always rely on John to send me the relevant data, as he never understands a word of it himself.
Watson: What are you talking about, you’re busy? You don’t have a case! A minute ago you were complaining ...
Sherlock: Bluebell, John! I’ve got Bluebell! The case of the vanishing, glow-in-the-dark rabbit!  NATO’s in uproar.
HENRY: Oh, sorry, no, you’re not coming, then?
Watson: Okay.  Okay.
Sherlock: I don’t need those any more. I’m going to Dartmoor.
Sherlock: You go on ahead, Henry. We’ll follow later.
HENRY : Er, sorry, so you are coming?
Sherlock: Twenty year old disappearance; a monstrous hound? I wouldn’t miss this for the world!
Later, John carries two large bags out onto the street, shuts the front door and walks over to Sherlock who is holding a taxi door open. Next door in Speedy’s, Mrs Hudson is shouting angrily at an unseen Mr. Chatterjee.
MRS HUDSON: ... cruise together. You had no intention of taking me on it ...
Watson: Oh! Looks like Mrs Hudson finally got to the wife in Doncaster.
Sherlock: Mmm. Wait ’til she finds out about the one in Islamabad.
Sherlock: Paddington Station, please.
DARTMOOR. After many sh*ts of the beautiful scenery which your transcriber is delighted to sit back and watch while resting her aching fingers, we find our boys driving across the moors in a large black Land Rover jeep. Sherlock is driving ... and if they’re not playing “Yellow Car” I shall be most disappointed. Some time later, away from the road, Sherlock is standing dramatically skylined on a large stone outcrop while John stands at the foot of it consulting a map. He points ahead of himself at a large array of buildings in the distance.
Watson: There’s Baskerville.
Watson: That’s Grimpen Village.
Watson: So that must be ... yeah, it’s Dewer’s Hollow.
Sherlock: What’s that?
Watson: Hmm?
Watson: Minefield? Technically Baskerville’s an army base, so I guess they’ve always been keen to keep people out.
Sherlock: Clearly.
Later, they drive into Grimpen Village and pull into the car park of the Cross Keys inn. They get out and walk towards the entrance of the pub, where a young man who is apparently a tour guide is talking to a group of tourists.
FLETCHER: ... three times a day, tell your friends. Tell anyone!
FLETCHER : Don’t be strangers, and remember ... stay away from the moor at night if you value your lives!
Sherlock: I’m cold.
Flashback to Henry Knight’s father being grabbed by something in Dewer’s Hollow, and young Henry’s horrified face. In the present, adult Henry flinches, his eyes closed as he sits half reclined on a comfortable armchair. The flashbacks continue to haunt him until he opens his eyes and sighs. A woman is sitting a short distance away with a notebook and pen on her lap.
HENRY: That part doesn’t change.
MORTIMER: What does?
HENRY: Oh, there’s something else. It-it’s a word.
HENRY: “Liberty.”
MORTIMER: Liberty?
HENRY : There’s another word.  “In.” I-N. “Liberty In.”  What do you think it means?
CROSS KEYS INN. As Sherlock prowls around the pub, John is at the bar checking in. The manager and barman, Gary, hands him some keys.
GARY: Eh, sorry we couldn’t do a double room for you boys.
Watson: That’s fine. We-we’re not ...
Watson: There you go.
GARY: Oh, ta. I’ll just get your change.
Watson: Ta.
GARY: There you go.
Watson: I couldn’t help noticing on the map of the moor: a skull and crossbones.
GARY: Oh that, aye.
Watson: Pirates?!
GARY: Eh, no, no. The Great Grimpen Minefield, they call it.
Watson: Oh, right.
GARY: It’s not what you think. It’s the Baskerville testing site. It’s been going for eighty-odd years. I’m not sure anyone really knows what’s there any more.
Watson: expl*sives?
GARY: Oh, not just expl*sives. Break into that place and – if you’re lucky – you just get bl*wn up, so they say ... in case you’re planning on a nice wee stroll.
Watson: Ta. I’ll remember.
GARY: Aye. No, it buggers up tourism a bit, so thank God for the demon hound!  Did you see that show, that documentary?
Watson: Quite recently, yeah.
GARY: Aye. God bless Henry Knight and his monster from hell.
Watson: Ever seen it – the hound?
GARY: Me? No.
GARY: Fletcher has. He runs the walks – the Monster Walks for the tourists, you know? He’s seen it.
Watson: That’s handy for trade.
GARY: I’m just saying we’ve been rushed off our feet, Billy.
BILLY: Yeah. Lots of monster-hunters. Doesn’t take much these days. One mention on Twitter and oomph.
BILLY: We’re out of WKD.
GARY: All right.
BILLY: What with the monster and that ruddy prison, I don’t know how we sleep nights. Do you, Gary?
GARY: Like a baby.
BILLY: That’s not true.  He’s a snorer.
GARY : Hey, wheesht!
BILLY : Is yours a snorer?
Watson: ... Got any crisps?
Outside, Sherlock swipes a half-drunk pint of beer from a nearby empty table and walks over towards Fletcher, noticing as he does so that he has a copy of the Racing Post in his trouser pocket. Fletcher has gone over to another of the tables and is just finishing his phone call.
FLETCHER: Yeah ... No. All right? Right. Take care. Bye.
Sherlock: Mind if I join you?
Sherlock: It’s not true, is it? You haven’t actually seen this ... hound thing.
FLETCHER : You from the papers?
Sherlock: No, nothing like that. Just curious. Have you seen it?
FLETCHER: Maybe.
Sherlock: Got any proof?
FLETCHER: Why would I tell you if I did? ’Scuse me.
Watson: I called Henry ...
Sherlock: Bet’s off, John, sorry.
Watson: What?
FLETCHER: Bet?
Sherlock: My plan needs darkness.  Reckon we’ve got another half an hour of light ...
FLETCHER: Wait, wait. What bet?
Sherlock: Oh, I bet John here fifty quid that you couldn’t prove you’d seen the hound.
Watson: Yeah, the guys in the pub said you could.
FLETCHER: Well, you’re gonna lose your money, mate.
Sherlock: Yeah?
FLETCHER: Yeah. I’ve seen it. Only about a month ago, up at the Hollow. It was foggy, mind – couldn’t make much out.
Sherlock: I see. No witnesses, I suppose.
FLETCHER: No, but ...
Sherlock: Never are.
FLETCHER: Wait ...
FLETCHER: There.
Sherlock: Is that it? It’s not exactly proof, is it?
Sherlock: Sorry, John. I win.
FLETCHER: Wait, wait. That’s not all. People don’t like going up there, you know – to the Hollow. Gives them a ... bad sort of feeling.
Sherlock: Ooh! Is it haunted? Is that supposed to convince me?
FLETCHER: Nah, don’t be stupid, nothing like that, but I reckon there is something out there – something from Baskerville, escaped.
Sherlock: A clone, a super-dog?
FLETCHER: Maybe. God knows what they’ve been spraying on us all these years, or putting in the water. I wouldn’t trust ’em as far as I could spit.
Sherlock: Is that the best you’ve got?
FLETCHER: I had a mate once who worked for the MOD. One weekend we were meant to go fishin’ but he never showed up – well, not ’til late. When he did, he was white as a sheet. I can see him now. “I’ve seen things today, Fletch,” he said, “that I never wanna see again. Terrible things.” He’d been sent to some secret Army place – Porton Down, maybe, maybe Baskerville, or somewhere else.
FLETCHER: In the labs there – the really secret labs, he said he’d seen ... terrible things. Rats as big as dogs, he said, and dogs ...
FLETCHER: ... dogs the size of horses.
Watson: Er, we did say fifty?
Watson: Ta.
Later, Sherlock and John take the car to Baskerville, Sherlock still driving. As they approach the complex, he observes that there are very many military personnel guarding the place, walking the perimeter etc. He drives up to the gates and a military security guard holding a r*fle raises a hand. As Sherlock stops the jeep, the man walks around to the driver’s window.
SECURITY GUARD: Pass, please.
SECURITY GUARD: Thank you.
Watson: You’ve got ID for Baskerville. How?
Sherlock: It’s not specific to this place. It’s my brother’s. Access all areas. I, um ...  ... acquired it ages ago, just in case.
’.)
Watson: Brilliant
Sherlock: What’s the matter?
Watson: We’ll get caught.
Sherlock: No we won’t – well, not just yet.
Watson: Caught in five minutes. “Oh, hi, we just thought we’d come and have a wander round your top secret w*apon base.” “Really? Great! Come in – kettle’s just boiled.” That’s if we don’t get sh*t.
SECURITY DOG HANDLER: Clear.
SECURITY GUARD : Thank you very much, sir.
Sherlock: Thank you.
SECURITY GUARD: Straight through, sir.
Watson: Mycroft’s name literally opens doors!
Sherlock: I’ve told you – he practically is the British government. I reckon we’ve got about twenty minutes before they realise something’s wrong.
Sherlock drives up to the main complex at Baskerville, parks the car and he and John get out. Another soldier leads them through barriers and towards an entrance to the main building. As they walk, Sherlock looks around at all the military men patrolling the area, many of them armed. Even the scientists in lab coats are being escorted. As they approach the entrance, a military jeep pulls up and a young corporal gets out.
LYONS: What is it? Are we in trouble?
Sherlock: “Are we in trouble, sir.”
LYONS: Yes, sir, sorry, sir.
Sherlock: You were expecting us?
LYONS: Your ID showed up straight away, Mr. Holmes. Corporal Lyons, security. Is there something wrong, sir?
Sherlock: Well, I hope not, Corporal, I hope not.
LYONS: It’s just we don’t get inspected here, you see, sir. It just doesn’t happen.
Watson: Ever heard of a spot check?
Watson: Captain John Watson, Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers.
LYONS: Sir. Major Barrymore won’t be pleased, sir. He’ll want to see you both.
Watson: I’m afraid we won’t have time for that. We’ll need the full tour right away. Carry on.
Watson: That’s an order, Corporal.
LYONS: Yes, sir.
(Elsewhere, probably a long way from Baskerville, a message flashes up on a screen:
CCV1 • security authorization requested •
holmes, mycroft • priority ultra
processing CCV1 •
5555*0000*x1 //5894
The security request begins to process. At Baskerville, the door swings open and Lyons leads the other two inside, taking off his beret as he goes. As he leads them towards the next security door, the boys talk quietly.)
Sherlock: Nice touch.
Watson: Haven’t pulled rank in ages.
Sherlock: Enjoy it?
Watson: Oh yeah.
Sherlock: How many animals do you keep down here?
LYONS: Lots, sir.
Sherlock: Any ever escape?
LYONS: They’d have to know how to use that lift, sir. We’re not breeding them that clever.
Sherlock: Unless they have help.
FRANKLAND: Ah, and you are?
LYONS: Sorry, Doctor Frankland. I’m just showing these gentlemen around.
FRANKLAND : Ah, new faces, huh? Nice. Careful you don’t get stuck here, though. I only came to fix a tap!
Watson: How far down does that lift go?
LYONS: Quite a way, sir.
Watson: Mmm-hmm. And what’s down there?
LYONS: Well, we have to keep the bins somewhere, sir. This way please, gentlemen.
Watson: So what exactly is it that you do here?
LYONS: I thought you’d know, sir, this being an inspection.
Watson: Well, I’m not an expert, am I?
LYONS: Everything from stem cell research to trying to cure the common cold, sir.
Watson: But mostly w*apon?
LYONS: Of one sort or another, yes.
Watson: Biological, chemical ...?
LYONS: One w*r ends, another begins, sir. New enemies to fight. We have to be prepared.
(As the door releases, Sherlock checks his watch as the security authorisation message goes out again, the message changing slightly:
CCV1 • security authorization //5894
• query • query • query
CCV1 • 5555*0000*x1
Lyons leads them through the doors and into another lab where a monkey stands up on its back legs with one hand high in the air and shrieks before sitting down again on a high metal table. A female scientist looks at it and then turns to her colleague.)
STAPLETON: Okay, Michael, let’s try Harlow Three next time.
LYONS: Doctor Stapleton.
Sherlock: Stapleton.
STAPLETON: Yes?  Who’s this?
LYONS: Priority Ultra, ma’am. Orders from on high. An inspection.
STAPLETON: Really?
Sherlock: We’re to be accorded every courtesy, Doctor Stapleton. What’s your role at Baskerville?
Watson: Er, accorded every courtesy, isn’t that the idea?
STAPLETON: I’m not free to say. Official secrets.
Sherlock: Oh, you most certainly are free ...  ... and I suggest you remain that way.
STAPLETON: I have a lot of fingers in a lot of pies. I like to mix things up – genes, mostly; now and again actual fingers.
Sherlock: Stapleton. I knew I knew your name.
STAPLETON: I doubt it.
Sherlock: People say there’s no such thing as coincidence. What dull lives they must lead.
STAPLETON: Have you been talking to my daughter?
Sherlock: Why did Bluebell have to die, Doctor Stapleton?
Watson: The rabbit?
Sherlock: Disappeared from inside a locked hutch, which was always suggestive.
Watson: The rabbit?
Sherlock: Clearly an inside job.
STAPLETON: Oh, you reckon?
Sherlock: Why? Because it glowed in the dark.
STAPLETON: I have absolutely no idea what you’re talking about. Who are you?
(Even as she speaks Sherlock has been keeping a mental note of the time and now checks his watch again. Out in the security system somewhere, the authorisation request changes:
CCV1 • security authorization
•• alert •• alert ••
potential level 5 security breach
5555*0000*x1 //5894
Someone looking at the screen picks up the phone and lifts the handset to their ear. At Baskerville, Sherlock lowers his hand and turns to Lyons.)
Sherlock: Well, I think we’ve seen enough for now, Corporal. Thank you so much.
LYONS : That’s it?
Sherlock: That’s it.  It’s this way, isn’t it?
STAPLETON : Just a minute!
Watson: Did we just break into a military base to investigate a rabbit?
(Sherlock reaches the door and swipes his card, then waits for Lyons to catch up to them and do the same with his own card. In Whitehall or somewhere similar, telephones begin to ring as a chain of calls relays the potential security breach and the message goes out:
• URGENT • URGENT • URGENT •
refer holmes, mycroft
Sitting in what can surely only be the Diogenes Club with a cup of coffee on the table beside him, Mycroft takes out his phone as it trills quietly. Looking at the message, he rolls his eyes in exasperation, gazes off into space with a “Good God – what now?!” look on his face for a moment and then begins to text.)
(At Baskerville, Sherlock walks swiftly through the security doors and heads for the lift as his phone trills a text alert. He takes out his phone without stopping and reads the message:
What are you
doing?
M
He laughs sarcastically.)
Sherlock: Twenty-three minutes. Mycroft’s getting slow.
FRANKLAND: Hello ... again.
LYONS: Er, um, Major ...
BARRYMORE: This is bloody outrageous. Why wasn’t I told?
Watson: Major Barrymore, is it?  Yes, well, good. Very good.  We’re very impressed, aren’t we, Mr. Holmes?
Sherlock: Deeply; hugely.
(He walks past Barrymore as he looks at his text message which reads:
What’s going on
Sherlock?
M
The major follows along behind the boys as Sherlock hurries towards the exit door.)
BARRYMORE: The whole point of Baskerville was to eliminate this kind of bureaucratic nonsense ...
Sherlock: I’m so sorry, Major.
BARRYMORE: Inspections?!
Sherlock: New policy. Can’t remain unmonitored forever. Goodness knows what you’d get up to.  Keep walking.
LYONS: Sir!
LYONS: ID unauthorised, sir.
BARRYMORE: What?
LYONS: I’ve just had the call.
BARRYMORE: Is that right?
BARRYMORE: Who are you?
Watson: Look, there’s obviously been some kind of mistake.
BARRYMORE: Clearly not Mycroft Holmes.
Watson: Computer error, Major. It’ll all have to go in the report.
BARRYMORE: What the hell’s going on?!
FRANKLAND: It’s all right, Major. I know exactly who these gentlemen are.
BARRYMORE: You do?
FRANKLAND: Yeah. I’m getting a little slow on faces but Mr. Holmes here isn’t someone I expected to show up in this place.
Sherlock: Ah, well ...
FRANKLAND : Good to see you again, Mycroft.
FRANKLAND: I had the honour of meeting Mr. Holmes at the W.H.O. conference in ...  ... Brussels, was it?
Sherlock: Vienna.
FRANKLAND: Vienna, that’s it.
FRANKLAND: This is Mr. Mycroft Holmes, Major. There’s obviously been a mistake.
BARRYMORE : On your head be it, Doctor Frankland.
FRANKLAND : I’ll show them out, Corporal.
LYONS: Very well, sir.
Sherlock: Thank you.
FRANKLAND: This is about Henry Knight, isn’t it?
FRANKLAND: I thought so. I knew he wanted help but I didn’t realise he was going to contact Sherlock Holmes!
FRANKLAND: Oh, don’t worry. I know who you really are. I’m never off your website. Thought you’d be wearing the hat, though.
Sherlock: That wasn’t my hat.
FRANKLAND : I hardly recognise him without the hat!
Sherlock: It wasn’t my hat.
FRANKLAND: I love the blog too, Doctor Watson.
Watson: Oh, cheers!
FRANKLAND: The, er, the Pink thing ...
Watson: Mmm-hmm.
FRANKLAND: ... and that one about the aluminium crutch!
Watson: Yes.
Sherlock: You know Henry Knight?
FRANKLAND: Well, I knew his dad better. He had all sorts of mad theories about this place. Still, he was a good friend.
FRANKLAND: Listen, I can’t really talk now.
FRANKLAND: Here’s my, er, cell number. If I could help with Henry, give me a call.
Sherlock: I never did ask, Doctor Frankland. What exactly is it that you do here?
FRANKLAND: Oh, Mr. Holmes, I would love to tell you – but then, of course, I’d have to k*ll you!
Sherlock: That would be tremendously ambitious of you.
Sherlock: Tell me about Doctor Stapleton.
FRANKLAND: Never speak ill of a colleague.
Sherlock: Yet you’d speak well of one, which you’re clearly omitting to do.
FRANKLAND: I do seem to be, don’t I?
Sherlock: I’ll be in touch.
FRANKLAND: Any time.
Watson: So?
Sherlock: So?
Watson: What was all that about the rabbit?
Watson: Oh, please, can we not do this, this time?
Sherlock: Do what?
Watson: You being all mysterious with your cheekbones and turning your coat collar up so you look cool.
Sherlock: ... I don’t do that.
Watson: Yeah you do.
Later, Sherlock is driving them across the moors.
Watson: So, the email from Kirsty – the, er, missing luminous rabbit.
Sherlock: Kirsty Stapleton, whose mother specialises in genetic manipulation.
Watson: She made her daughter’s rabbit glow in the dark.
Sherlock: Probably a fluorescent gene removed and spliced into the specimen. Simple enough these days.
Watson: So ...
Sherlock: So we know that Doctor Stapleton performs secret genetic experiments on animals. The question is: has she been working on something deadlier than a rabbit?
Watson: To be fair, that is quite a wide field.
HENRY KNIGHT’S HOUSE. His home is enormous – a four-storey stone building that was probably a very important property in the area in the past. A large old-fashioned glass conservatory is attached to the rear of the building on the ground floor  and a modern two-storey glass extension has been built onto the side of the house to join it to another two-storey stone building nearby. Sherlock and John go into the conservatory, which looks very run-down and clearly hasn’t had a paint job in years, and walk across to the door on the opposite side. Sherlock rings the doorbell and Henry opens the door.
HENRY: Hi.
Watson: Hi.
HENRY: Come in, come in.
Watson: This is, uh ... are you, um ...
Watson: ... rich?
HENRY: Yeah.
Watson: Right.
Not long afterwards, in the kitchen in the glass extension, Sherlock puts two sugar lumps into his mug and stirs them in. He is sitting on a stool at the central island and John is sitting next to him. Henry is standing on the other side of the island gazing down at the work surface.
HENRY: It’s-it’s a couple of words. It’s what I keep seeing. “Liberty” ...
Watson: Liberty.
HENRY : “Liberty” and ... “in”. It’s just that.
HENRY: Are you finished?
Watson: Mmm.
Watson: Mean anything to you?
Sherlock: “Liberty in death” – isn’t that the expression? The only true freedom.
HENRY: What now, then?
Watson: Sherlock’s got a plan.
Sherlock: Yes.
HENRY: Right.
Sherlock: We take you back out onto the moor ...
HENRY : Okay ...
Sherlock: ... and see if anything att*cks you.
Watson: What?!
Sherlock: That should bring things to a head.
HENRY: At night? You want me to go out there at night?
Sherlock: Mmm.
Watson: That’s your plan?  Brilliant
Sherlock: Got any better ideas?
Watson: That’s not a plan.
Sherlock: Listen, if there is a monster out there, John, there’s only one thing to do: find out where it lives.
DUSK. THE MOORS. As night begins to fall, Henry leads Sherlock and John across the rocks towards Dewer’s Hollow. All three of them have flashlights to light the uneven ground below their feet. Foxes scream repeatedly in the distance. By the time they reach the woods it is almost full dark and it becomes even darker as they head into the trees. John, bringing up the rear, hears rustling to his right and turns around to look. The other two don’t notice and continue onwards as John walks cautiously towards the sound he heard. He shines his torch into the bushes as an owl shrieks overhead, but he can see nothing. Raising his head he sees a light repeatedly winking on and off at the top of a hillside a fair distance away. He looks around to alert his friend.
Watson: Sher...
Watson: U ... M ... Q ... R ... A.
Watson: U, M, Q, R, A.  Umqra?
Watson: Sherlock ...
Watson: Sherlock ... Sherlock ...
Sherlock: Met a friend of yours.
HENRY: What?
Sherlock: Doctor Frankland.
HENRY: Oh, right. Bob, yeah.
Sherlock: Seems pretty concerned about you.
HENRY: He’s a worrier, bless him. He’s been very kind to me since I came back.
Sherlock: He knew your father.
HENRY: Yeah.
Sherlock: But he works at Baskerville. Didn’t your dad have a problem with that?
HENRY: Well, mates are mates, aren’t they? I mean, look at you and John.
Sherlock: What about us?
HENRY: Well, I mean, he’s a pretty straightforward bloke, and you ...
HENRY: They agreed never to talk about work, Uncle Bob and my dad.
HENRY : Dewer’s Hollow.
Watson: Sherlock ...
HENRY: Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Did you see it?
Watson: Did you hear that?
HENRY: We saw it. We saw it.
Sherlock: No. I didn’t see anything.
HENRY : What? What are you talking about?
Sherlock: I didn’t. See. Anything.
Some time later at Henry’s house, Henry and John hurry indoors. Sherlock has disappeared off elsewhere.
HENRY: Look, he must have seen it. I saw it – he must have. He must have. I can’t ... Why? Why?
HENRY: Why would he say that? It-it-it-it it was there. It was.
Watson: Henry, Henry, I need you to sit down, try and relax, please.
HENRY : I’m okay, I’m okay.
Watson: Listen, I’m gonna give you something to help you sleep, all right?
HENRY: This is good news, John. It’s-it’s-it’s good. I’m not crazy. There is a hound, there ... there is. And Sherlock – he saw it too. No matter what he said, he saw it.
Sherlock is back at the inn. Sitting in an armchair by a roaring open f*re, his face is still full of shock and disbelief. Unaware of his distress, other patrons sit at tables nearby having their evening meal. John comes in and sits down in the armchair on the other side of the f*re.
Watson: Well, he is in a pretty bad way. He’s manic, totally convinced there’s some mutant super-dog roaming the moors.
Watson: And there isn’t, though, is there? ’Cause if people knew how to make a mutant super-dog, we’d know.
Watson: They’d be for sale. I mean, that’s how it works.
Watson: Er, listen: er, on the moor I saw someone signalling. Er, Morse – I guess it’s Morse.
Watson: Doesn’t seem to make much sense.
Watson: Er, U, M, Q, R, A. Does that mean ... anything ...
Watson: So, okay, what have we got? We know there’s footprints, ’cause Henry found them; so did the tour guide bloke. We all heard something.
Watson: Maybe we should just look for whoever’s got a big dog.
Sherlock: Henry’s right.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: I saw it too.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: I saw it too, John.
Watson: Just ... just a minute.  You saw what?
Sherlock: A hound, out there in the Hollow.  A gigantic hound.
Watson: Um, look, Sherlock, we have to be rational about this, okay? Now you, of all people, can’t just ...
Watson: Let’s just stick to what we know, yes? Stick to the facts.
Sherlock: Once you’ve ruled out the impossible, whatever remains – however improbable – must be true.
Watson: What does that mean?
Sherlock: Look at me. I’m afraid, John. Afraid.
Watson: Sherlock?
Sherlock: Always been able to keep myself distant ...  ... divorce myself from ... feelings. But look, you see ...
Sherlock: ... body’s betraying me. Interesting, yes? Emotions.  The grit on the lens, the fly in the ointment.
Watson: Yeah, all right, Spock, just ...
Watson: ... take it easy.
Watson: You’ve been pretty wired lately, you know you have. I think you’ve just gone out there and got yourself a bit worked up.
Sherlock: Worked ... up?
Watson: It was dark and scary ...
Sherlock: Me?! There’s nothing wrong with me.
Watson: Sherlock ...
Watson: Sher...
Sherlock: THERE IS NOTHING WRONG WITH ME!
Sherlock: DO YOU UNDERSTAND?
Sherlock: You want me to prove it, yes?
Sherlock: We’re looking for a dog, yes, a great big dog, that’s your brilliant theory. Cherchez le chien. Good, excellent, yes, where shall we start?
Sherlock: How about them? The sentimental widow and her son, the unemployed fisherman. The answer’s yes.
Watson: Yes?
Sherlock: She’s got a West Highland terrier called Whisky. Not exactly what we’re looking for.
Watson: Oh, Sherlock, for God’s sake ...
Sherlock: Look at the jumper he’s wearing. Hardly worn. Clearly he’s uncomfortable in it. Maybe it’s because of the material; more likely the hideous pattern, suggesting it’s a present, probably Christmas. So he wants into his mother’s good books. Why? Almost certainly money.
Sherlock: He’s treating her to a meal but his own portion is small. That means he wants to impress her, but he’s trying to economise on his own food.
Watson: Well, maybe he’s just not hungry.
Sherlock: No, small plate. Starter. He’s practically licked it clean. She’s nearly finished her pavlova. If she’d treated him, he’d have had as much as he wanted. He’s hungry all right, and not well off – you can tell that by the state of his cuffs and shoes.
Sherlock: “How d’you know she’s his mother?”
Sherlock: Who else would give him a Christmas present like that? Well, it could be an aunt or an elder sister, but mother’s more likely. Now, he was a fisherman. Scarring pattern on his hands, very distinctive – fish hooks. They’re all quite old now, which suggests he’s been unemployed for some time. Not much industry in this part of the world, so he’s turned to his widowed mother for help. “Widowed?” Yes, obviously. She’s got a man’s wedding ring on a chain round her neck – clearly her late husband’s and too big for her finger. She’s well-dressed but her jewellery’s cheap. She could afford better, but she’s kept it – it’s sentimental. Now, the dog: tiny little hairs all over the leg from where it gets a little bit too friendly, but no hairs above the knees, suggesting it’s a small dog, probably a terrier. In fact it is – a West Highland terrier called Whisky. “How the hell do you know that, Sherlock?” ’Cause she was on the same train as us and I heard her calling its name and that’s not cheating, that’s listening, I use my senses, John, unlike some people, so you see, I am fine, in fact I’ve never been better, so just Leave. Me. Alone.
Watson: Yeah.
Watson: Okay. Okay.
Watson: And why would you listen to me? I’m just your friend.
Sherlock: I don’t have friends.
Watson: Naah. Wonder why?
Shortly afterwards, John storms out of the pub and stops just outside, breathing heavily. He gazes up into the sky and bl*ws out a breath, pulling himself together, then looks into the distance and his eyes narrow. The flashing light is back on the hillside. As it continues to flash, he starts to walk in its direction.
HENRY’S HOUSE. Henry is asleep on the sofa at the edge of the kitchen. He has a duvet over him and a pillow under his head, presumably brought in by John after giving him a sleeping pill. Now he wakes, sits up and rubs his hands over his face, sighing. He stands up and walks over to the floor-to-ceiling glass doors and looks out into the dark garden. Still half asleep, he has a sudden mental flash of the word “Liberty” stitched into material, and then the following “In” word. Recoiling from the memory, he buries his face in his hands and sighs in anguish.
MOORS. Using his torch to illuminate the way, John is walking towards the flashing light on the hillside. As he reaches the top of the hill he can hear a rhythmic squeaking noise, and then as he shines his light around he realises that there are several cars parked up there. The drivers sitting in each car flinch and hold their hands up to shield their faces from the beam from John’s torch, but they are also trying to avoid being identified and John now realises why as he turns his beam onto a car which has slightly steamed-up windows and which is rocking from side to side. Its headlights are intermittently flashing on and off. A woman’s voice comes from inside the car.
WOMAN’s VOICE: Oh! Mr. Selden! You’ve done it again!
MAN’s VOICE: Oh, I keep catching it with my belt.
Watson: Oh, God.
Watson: Sh...
(As he walks away from the hillside his phone trills a text alert. He gets the phone out and looks at the message:
Henry’s therapist currently in Cross Keys Pub
S
John writes a brief reply, speaking it aloud as he types.)
Watson: So?
(The reply comes almost instantly:
Interview her?
John answers:
WHY SHOULD I?
After a moment he gets another alert:
Downloading image ...
Shortly afterwards the image arrives and he opens it. It’s a covertly-taken photograph of Louise Mortimer standing at the bar. She’s pretty, and around John’s age. He looks at the photo for a moment and then walks on.)
Watson: Ooh, you’re a bad man.
HENRY’S HOUSE. Henry has sat back down on the sofa and has wrapped the duvet around him. The television is on nearby but he is dozing and not paying attention to it. He wakes a little and looks out in the dark garden again, his eyes tired and heavy, then he turns to look at the TV. An old black and white film is showing several dogs running around somewhere dark and spooky-looking. Henry quickly changes the channel to a less thr*at film that looks as if it’s set in a rural village during the 1940s.
Suddenly the security lights outside the house come on. Henry looks anxiously into the garden but can see nothing moving in the bright lights. A few seconds later the lights fade out again. Henry turns his head away and instantly – unseen by him – something moves quickly across the garden by the back fence. Henry changes the TV channel again and picks the worst possible choice as a wolf snarls straight into the camera while a woman screams in terror offscreen. Recoiling in annoyed frustration, Henry turns the TV off. Instantly the security lights come on again. There still appears to be nothing out there but Henry gets up and walks closer to the glass doors. Just as the lights begin to fade again, a huge shape flicks across the garden at the far end. It moves so fast that it’s impossible to see what it is, except that it appears to be fairly low to the ground. Henry recoils in horror and looks across to a small cabinet on the other side of the room. He hesitates, almost afraid to move, but then runs across and scrabbles in the cabinet before pulling out a p*stol. Panting in terror, he turns and looks out into the dark garden again and then, in a move that has every viewer yelling at the screen, “Never go nearer to the danger, you idiot!” he walks slowly towards the glass doors. Just as he almost has his nose against the glass the lights blaze again and a massive shape, most definitely looking like the head of a huge dog, slams against the glass on the other side and then immediately vanishes again. Screaming and wailing in panic, Henry stumbles back and aims his p*stol at the glass. The lights fade out again. Henry sobs and a couple of seconds later the lights flash on yet again. His eyes rake over the garden but there’s nothing to be seen. The lights fade one more time and by now Henry has sunk to the floor, his hands over his face as he sobs in absolute terror.
CROSS KEYS INN. John is sitting with Louise Mortimer in the pub. They are chatting and laughing.
MORTIMER : That’s so mean!
Watson: Um, more wine, Doctor?
MORTIMER: Are you trying to get me drunk, Doctor?
Watson: The thought never occurred!
MORTIMER: Because a while ago I thought you were chatting me up.
Watson: Ooh! Where did I go wrong?
MORTIMER: When you started asking me about my patients.
Watson: Well, you see, I am one of Henry’s oldest friends.
MORTIMER: Yeah, and he’s one of my patients, so I can’t talk about him.
Watson: Mmm.
MORTIMER: Although he has told me about all his oldest friends.  Which one are you?
Watson: A new one?
Watson: Okay, what about his father? He wasn’t one of your patients. Wasn’t he some sort of conspiracy nutter ...  ... theorist?
MORTIMER: You’re only a nutter if you’re wrong.
Watson: Mmm. And was he wrong?
MORTIMER: I should think so!
Watson: But he got fixated on Baskerville, didn’t he? With what they were doing in there ... Couldn’t Henry have gone the same way, started imagining a hound?
MORTIMER: Why d’you think I’m going to talk about this?!
Watson: Because I think you’re worried about him, and because I’m a doctor too ...
Watson: ... and because I have another friend who might be having the same problem.
FRANKLAND: Doctor Watson!
Watson: Hi.
FRANKLAND : Hello.  How’s the investigation going?
Watson: Hello.
MORTIMER: What? Investigation?
FRANKLAND: Didn’t you know? Don’t you read the blog? Sherlock Holmes!
Watson: It’s ...
MORTIMER: Sherlock who?
Watson: No, it’s ...
FRANKLAND: Private detective!  This is his P.A!
Watson: P.A?
FRANKLAND: Well, live-in P.A.
Watson: Perfect
MORTIMER: Live-in.
Watson: This is Doctor Mortimer, Henry’s therapist.
FRANKLAND: Oh, hello.  Bob Frankland.
FRANKLAND: Listen, tell Sherlock I’ve been keeping an eye on Stapleton. Any time he wants a little chat ... right?
Watson: Mmm.
Watson: Oh.
MORTIMER: Why don’t you buy him a drink? I think he likes you.
DAY TIME. THE MOORS. Sherlock is back on the stony outcrop again, staring towards Baskerville. His eyes flick between the complex and Dewer’s Hollow as he tries to make sense of what happened the previous night, then he turns and looks back towards Grimpen Village.
HENRY’S HOUSE. Henry goes to the door at the sound of a knock. As soon as he opens it Sherlock surges though, being loudly cheerful.
Sherlock: Morning!
Sherlock: Oh, how are you feeling?
HENRY : I’m ... I didn’t sleep very well.
Sherlock: That’s a shame. Shall I make you some coffee?  Oh look, you’ve got damp!
HENRY: Listen ... last night.
HENRY: Why did you say you hadn’t seen anything? I mean, I only saw the hound for a minute, but...
Sherlock: Hound.
HENRY: What?
Sherlock: Why do you call it a hound? Why a hound?
HENRY: Why – what do you mean?
Sherlock: It’s odd, isn’t it? Strange choice of words – archaic. It’s why I took the case. “Mr. Holmes, they were the footprints of a gigantic hound.” Why say “hound”?
HENRY: I don’t know! I ...
Sherlock: Actually, I’d better skip the coffee.
Later, Sherlock is walking back through the village but stops as he sees John in the church graveyard, sitting on the steps of a w*r memorial and looking through the notes in his notebook. Sherlock goes through the kissing gate  and walks along the path towards John, who looks up as he hears him approach. His expression becomes uncomfortable as he tucks his notebook into his pocket. Sherlock stops in front of him, also looking awkward.
Sherlock: Did you, er, get anywhere with that Morse code?
Watson: No.
Sherlock: U, M, Q, R, A, wasn’t it?
Sherlock: UMQRA.
Watson: Nothing.
Sherlock: U.M.Q...
Watson: Look, forget it. It’s ... I thought I was on to something. I wasn’t.
Sherlock: Sure?
Watson: Yeah.
Sherlock: How about Louise Mortimer? Did you get anywhere with her?
Watson: No.
Sherlock: Too bad. Did you get any information?
Watson: You being funny now?
Sherlock: Thought it might break the ice a bit.
Watson: Funny doesn’t suit you. I’d stick to ice.
Sherlock: John ...
Watson: It’s fine.
Sherlock: No, wait. What happened last night ... Something happened to me; something I’ve not really experienced before ...
Watson: Yes, you said: fear. Sherlock Holmes got scared. You said.
Sherlock: No-no-no, it was more than that, John. It was doubt. I felt doubt. I’ve always been able to trust my senses, the evidence of my own eyes, until last night.
Watson: You can’t actually believe that you saw some kind of monster.
Sherlock: No, I can’t believe that.  But I did see it, so the question is: how? How?
Watson: Yes. Yeah, right, good. So you’ve got something to go on, then? Good luck with that.
Sherlock: Listen, what I said before, John. I meant it.
Sherlock: I don’t have friends.
Sherlock: I’ve just got one.
Watson: Right.
Sherlock: John? John!
Sherlock: You are amazing! You are fantastic!
Watson: Yes, all right! You don’t have to overdo it.
Sherlock: You’ve never been the most luminous of people, but as a conductor of light you are unbeatable.
Watson: Cheers. ... What?
Sherlock: Some people who aren’t geniuses have an amazing ability to stimulate it in others.
Watson: Hang on – you were saying “Sorry” a minute ago. Don’t spoil it. Go on: what have I done that’s so bloody stimulating?
(Sherlock stops just outside the pub door and turns back to John, showing what he has just written in his notebook:
HOUND
Watson: Yeah?
Sherlock: But what if it’s not a word? What if it is individual letters?
(He shows him the page of the notebook again, which now reads:
H.O.U.N.D.
Watson: You think it’s an acronym?
Sherlock: Absolutely no idea but ...
Sherlock: What the hell are you doing here?
LESTRADE: Well, nice to see you too I’m on holiday, would you believe?
Sherlock: No, I wouldn’t.
LESTRADE : Hullo, John.
Watson: Greg!
LESTRADE: I heard you were in the area. What are you up to? You after this Hound of Hell like on the telly?
Sherlock: I’m waiting for an explanation, Inspector. Why are you here?
LESTRADE: I’ve told you: I’m on holiday.
Sherlock: You’re brown as a nut. You’re clearly just back from your ‘holidays’.
LESTRADE : Yeah, well I fancied another one.
Sherlock: Oh, this is Mycroft, isn’t it?
LESTRADE: No, look ...
Sherlock: Of course it is! One mention of Baskerville and he sends down my handler to ... to spy on me incognito. Is that why you’re calling yourself Greg?
Watson: That’s his name.
Sherlock: Is it?
LESTRADE: Yes – if you’d ever bothered to find out. Look, I’m not your handler ...  ... and I don’t just do what your brother tells me.
Watson: Actually, you could be just the man we want.
Sherlock: Why?
Watson: Well, I’ve not been idle, Sherlock.  I think I might have found something.
Watson: Here. Didn’t know if it was relevant; starting to look like it might be. That is an awful lot of meat for a vegetarian restaurant.
Sherlock: Excellent.
Watson: Nice scary inspector from Scotland Yard who can put in a few calls might come in very handy.
Watson: Shop!
Later, in the small Snug next to the bar, Greg is sitting at a table looking through paperwork – presumably previous invoices from Undershaw – while Gary the manager and Billy the chef sit at the other side of the table looking at him anxiously. Nearby, Sherlock has poured a cup of coffee from a filter machine and is stirring it. He ostentatiously taps the drips off the spoon into the cup and then picks it up and carries it over to John, offering it to him.
Watson: What’s this?
Sherlock: Coffee. I made coffee.
Watson: You never make coffee.
Sherlock: I just did. Don’t you want it?
Watson: You don’t have to keep apologising.
Watson: Thanks.
Watson: Mm. I don’t take sugar ...
LESTRADE: These records go back nearly two months.
Watson: That’s nice. That’s good.
LESTRADE: Is that when you had the idea, after the TV show went out?
BILLY: It’s me. It was me.  I’m sorry, Gary – I couldn’t help it. I had a bacon sandwich at Carol’s wedding and one thing just led to another ...
LESTRADE: Nice try.
GARY: Look, we were just trying to give things a bit of a boost, you know? A great big dog run wild up on the moor – it was heaven-sent. It was like us having our own Loch Ness Monster.
LESTRADE: Where do you keep it?
GARY: There’s an old mineshaft. It’s not too far. It was all right there.
Sherlock: “Was”?
GARY : We couldn’t control the bloody thing. It was vicious.  And then, a month ago, Billy took him to the vet and, er ... you know.
Watson: It’s d*ad?
GARY: Put down.
BILLY: Yeah. No choice. So it’s over.
GARY: It was just a joke, you know?
LESTRADE: Yeah, hilarious
LESTRADE: You’ve nearly driven a man out of his mind.
Watson: You know he’s actually pleased you’re here?
Watson: Secretly pleased.
LESTRADE: Is he? That’s nice I suppose he likes having all the same faces back together. Appeals to his ... his ...
Watson: ... Asperger’s?
LESTRADE: So, you believe him about having the dog destroyed?
Sherlock: No reason not to.
LESTRADE: Well, hopefully there’s no harm done. Not quite sure what I’d charge him with anyway. I’ll have a word with the local Force.
LESTRADE: Right, that’s that, then. Catch you later.  I’m enjoying this! It’s nice to get London out of your lungs!
Watson: So that was their dog that people saw out on the moor?
Sherlock: Looks like it.
Watson: But that wasn’t what you saw. That wasn’t just an ordinary dog.
Sherlock: No.  It was immense, had burning red eyes and it was glowing, John. Its whole body was glowing.
Sherlock: I’ve got a theory but I need to get back into Baskerville to test it.
Watson: How? Can’t pull off the ID trick again.
Sherlock: Might not have to.
Sherlock: Hello, brother dear. How are you?
BASKERVILLE. After many generic scenes of some of the scientific experiments being conducted at the facility, none of which your humble transcriber can be bothered to type out , Doctor Stapleton can be seen handling a fluffy white bunny inside a large clear plastic dome. At the entrance gates, the Land Rover approaches and stops. An armed security man goes over to Sherlock’s side as the dog handler and sniffer dog also approach.
SECURITY GUARD: Afternoon, sir. If you could turn the engine off.
SECURITY GUARD: Thank you.
Sherlock: I need to see Major Barrymore as soon as we get inside.
Watson: Right.
Sherlock: Which means you’ll have to start the search for the hound.
Watson: Okay.
Sherlock: In the labs; Stapleton’s first.
Sherlock: Could be dangerous.
LATER. MAJOR BARRYMORE’S OFFICE. The major is talking snarkily to Sherlock.
BARRYMORE: Oh, you know I’d love to. I’d love to give you unlimited access to this place. Why not?
Sherlock: It’s a simple enough request, Major.
BARRYMORE: I’ve never heard of anything so bizarre.
Sherlock: You’re to give me twenty-four hours. It’s what I’ve ...  ... negotiated.
BARRYMORE : Not a second more. I may have to comply with this order but I don’t have to like it.
BARRYMORE: I don’t know what you expect to find here anyway.
Sherlock: Perhaps the truth.
BARRYMORE : About what? Oh, I see. The big coat should have told me.
BARRYMORE: You’re one of the conspiracy lot, aren’t you?
BARRYMORE: Well, then, go ahead, seek them out: the monsters, the death rays, the aliens.
Sherlock: Have you got any of those?
Sherlock: Oh, just wondering.
BARRYMORE : A couple. Crash landed here in the sixties. We call them Abbott and Costello.
BARRYMORE: Good luck, Mr. Holmes.
HENRY’S HOUSE. Henry is in the sitting room holding a framed photograph of himself when he was about five years old standing in between his parents. As he clutches the photograph he gazes into the distance with a lost expression on his face but gradually exhaustion begins to claim him and his eyelids begin to droop. Eventually his eyes close completely – and immediately the red glowing eyes of the hound flash in his mind. Gasping in horror, Henry opens his eyes again, and then wails in anguish.
HENRY: Oh, God!
BASKERVILLE. The lift doors open into the first lab that the boys visited but this time only John comes out of the elevator. As he walks forward he sees that there are only two scientists in the room and even they are leaving through a side door. The second one turns off the main overhead lights as he goes, which leaves the room lit far more dimly by a few arc lights on stands which are dotted around and the screens of some computers. John looks around a little anxiously as he realises how spooky and quiet it is, then walks towards doors at the far end of the lab, the doors which Doctor Frankland came out of on the first occasion that they met him. He has a security pass in his pocket and he takes it out and swipes it through the reader. This must be an even more powerful card than the one which Sherlock used last time because it doesn’t require a second card to unlock the doors. John pulls the door open and goes inside, having apparently ignored – or been too BAMF to care about – the handwritten notice on the outside which reads:
KEEP OUT
UNLESS YOU WANT
A COLD!
He walks through the decontamination zone to the door at the far end and taps a finger on the glass window in the door. When nobody replies he pushes the door open and goes into a room which has a glass-walled section on the left hand side. There’s a glass cage inside the sealed section but there doesn’t appear to be anything inside. In front of him is a desk with equipment, folders, a phone and various other things on it, and above the desk are small plastic tubes coming out of the wall and dials that indicate that these tubes dispense various gases. John opens the door of a small cupboard set into the desk but finds nothing of interest and so continues looking around. On the right hand side of the room are large metal pipes which presumably also carry gases. One of them is leaking slightly.
John peers around a little longer and then comes out of the room and goes back through the decontamination zone and into the lab. Just to his right is a large arc light on a stand. As John turns to his right to close the door behind him, the thing lights up and nine bright bulbs shine straight into his eyes. He squinches his eyes shut and turns his head away, grimacing at the pain.
Watson: Oh, no! Jesus! Ow!
Watson: Come on.
Watson: What the f...?
Watson: Hello?
Watson: No, come on, come on.
Watson: No, you ... Don’t be ridiculous, pick up.
Watson: Oh, dammit!
Watson: Right.
Watson: Oh sh...
Watson: Okay ...
Watson: It’s here. It’s in here with me.
Sherlock: Where are you?
Watson: Get me out, Sherlock. You have got to get me out. The big lab: the first lab that we saw.
Sherlock: John? John?
Watson: Now, Sherlock. Please.
Sherlock: All right, I’ll find you. Keep talking.
Watson: I can’t. It’ll hear me.
Sherlock: Keep talking. What are you seeing?
Sherlock: John?
Watson: Yes, I’m here.
Sherlock: What can you see?
Watson: I don’t know. I don’t know, but I can hear it.
Watson: Did you hear that?
Sherlock: Stay calm, stay calm. Can you see it?
Sherlock: Can you see it?
Watson: No. I can ...
Watson: I can see it.
Watson: It’s here.
Watson: It’s here.
Sherlock: Are you all right?
Sherlock: John ...
Watson: Jesus Christ ...
Watson: It was the hound, Sherlock. It was here. I swear it, Sherlock. It must ...
Watson: It must ...
Watson: Did ... did ... did you see it? You must have!
Sherlock: It’s all right. It’s okay now.
Watson: NO IT’S NOT! IT’S NOT OKAY! I saw it. I was wrong!
Sherlock: Well, let’s not jump to conclusions.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: What did you see?
Watson: I told you: I saw the hound.
Sherlock: Huge; red eyes?
Watson: Yes.
Sherlock: Glowing?
Watson: Yeah.
Sherlock: No.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: I made up the bit about glowing. You saw what you expected to see because I told you. You have been drugged. We have all been drugged.
Watson: Drugged?
Sherlock: Can you walk?
Watson: ’Course I can walk.
Sherlock: Come on, then. It’s time to lay this ghost.
In a small room full of cages, Doctor Stapleton is examing a fluffy white rabbit on a metal table. She looks up as Sherlock comes through the door, followed by John.
STAPLETON: Oh. Back again? What’s on your mind this time?
Sherlock: m*rder, Doctor Stapleton. Refined, cold-blooded m*rder.
Sherlock: Will you tell little Kirsty what happened to Bluebell or shall I?
STAPLETON: Okay. What do you want?
Sherlock: Can I borrow your microscope?
LATER. In a larger lab, Sherlock is gazing into a microscope. Unhappy with what he’s seeing, he turns away from the ’scope and crushes something which looks crystalline into smaller pieces with a little hammer. Time passes and he varies between sitting with his back to the microscope, his hands folded in the prayer position in front of him as he thinks, or gazing into the ’scope, or scribbling chemical formulae onto the desk with different coloured marker pens. Nearby, John sits on a stool with his head propped on his hand, gazing blankly into space. Doctor Stapleton is standing near him.
STAPLETON: Are you sure you’re okay?
STAPLETON: You look very peaky.
Watson: No, I’m all right.
STAPLETON: It was the GFP gene from a jellyfish, in case you’re interested.
Watson: What?
STAPLETON: In the rabbits.
Watson: Mmm, right, yes.
STAPLETON : Aequoria Victoria, if you really want to know.
Watson: Why?
STAPLETON: Why not? We don’t ask questions like that here. It isn’t done.
STAPLETON: There was a mix-up, anyway. My daughter ended up with one of the lab specimens, so poor Bluebell had to go.
Watson: Your compassion’s overwhelming.
STAPLETON : I know. I hate myself sometimes.
Watson: So, come on then. You can trust me – I’m a doctor. What else have you got hidden away up here?
STAPLETON: Listen: if you can imagine it, someone is probably doing it somewhere. Of course they are.
Watson: And cloning?
STAPLETON: Yes, of course. Dolly the Sheep, remember?
Watson: Human cloning?
STAPLETON: Why not?
Watson: What about animals? Not sheep ... big animals.
STAPLETON: Size isn’t a problem, not at all. The only limits are ethics and the law, and both those things can be ... very flexible. But not here – not at Baskerville.
Sherlock: It’s not there!
Watson: Jesus!
Sherlock: Nothing there! Doesn’t make any sense.
STAPLETON: What were you expecting to find?
Sherlock: A drug, of course. There has to be a drug – a hallucinogenic or a delirient of some kind. There’s no trace of anything in the sugar.
Watson: Sugar?
Sherlock: The sugar, yes. It’s a simple process of elimination. I saw the hound – saw it as my imagination expected me to see it: a genetically engineered monster. But I knew I couldn’t believe the evidence of my own eyes, so there were seven possible reasons for it, the most possible being narcotics. Henry Knight – he saw it too but you didn’t, John. You didn’t see it. Now, we have eaten and drunk exactly the same things since we got to Grimpen apart from one thing: you don’t take sugar in your coffee.
Watson: I see. So ...
Sherlock: I took it from Henry’s kitchen – his sugar.  It’s perfectly all right.
Watson: But maybe it’s not a drug.
Sherlock: No, it has to be a drug.
Sherlock: But how did it get into our systems. How?
Sherlock: There has to be something ...
Sherlock: ... something ... ah, something ...
Sherlock: ... something buried deep.
Sherlock: Get out.
STAPLETON: What?
Sherlock: Get out. I need to go to my mind palace.
STAPLETON: Your what?
Watson: He’s not gonna be doing much talking for a while. We may as well go.
STAPLETON: His what?
Watson: Oh, his mind palace. It’s a memory technique – a sort of mental map. You plot a map with a location – it doesn’t have to be a real place – and then you deposit memories there that ... Theoretically, you can never forget anything; all you have to do is find your way back to it.
STAPLETON: So this imaginary location can be anything – a house or a street.
Watson: Yeah.
STAPLETON: But he said “palace”. He said it was a palace.
Watson: Yeah, well, he would, wouldn’t he?
and “Indium atomic number = 49”.)
(Flicking that line of thought away, he starts calling up images of large dogs, running through various breeds and temporarily being distracted by the image of Elvis Presley starting to sing “Hound Dog”. Irritated, he brushes that aside and tries to pull in all three words – Liberty, In, Hound – simultaneously and suddenly his eyes snap open and he jolts three times as if he’s being repeatedly struck by lightning as the words finally crash into place:
Liberty,
Indiana
H.O.U.N.D.
He sinks back on his seat for a moment, then stands up and heads out of the lab.)
NIGHT TIME. THE MOORS. The hound howls and Henry races across the grass, his p*stol in one hand, terrified as the hound snarls behind him. Henry runs on, glancing back repeatedly as he hears his pursuer gaining on him. Two red glowing eyes loom out of the darkness each time he looks around, but now he suddenly seems to realise that he has a g*n in his hand and he turns and fires towards the eyes.
Glass shatters and Louise Mortimer screams as she throws herself out of her chair in the sitting room of Henry’s house and cowers on the floor. Just beside her chair, the mirror on the wall has shattered under the impact of the b*llet which Henry just fired into it. Sobbing and cowering, she looks up at Henry as he continues to aim at the mirror, his face blank, but now he comes back to himself and looks at the p*stol in horror.
HENRY: Oh my God.
HENRY: Oh my God. Oh my God. I am so ... I am so sorry. I am so sorry.
BASKERVILLE. Stapleton leads Sherlock and John along a corridor and uses her card to swipe them into the area leading to Major Barrymore’s office. As they go into the room, Sherlock points back to the door they just came through.
Sherlock: John.
Watson: Yeah, I’m on it.
Sherlock: Project HOUND. Must have read about it and stored it away. An experiment in a CIA facility in Liberty, Indiana.
Sherlock: H, O, U, N, D.
STAPLETON: That’s as far as my access goes, I’m afraid.
Watson: Well, there must be an override and password.
STAPLETON: I imagine so, but that’d be Major Barrymore’s.
Sherlock: Password, password, password.
Sherlock: He sat here when he thought it up.
Sherlock: Describe him to me.
STAPLETON: You’ve seen him.
Sherlock: But describe him.
STAPLETON: Er, he’s a bloody martinet, a throw-back, the sort of man they’d have sent into Suez.
Sherlock: Good, excellent. Old-fashioned, traditionalist; not the sort that would use his children’s names as a password.  He loves his job; proud of it and this is work-related, so what’s at eye level?
Sherlock: Books.  Jane’s Defence Weekly – bound copies.  Hannibal; Wellington; Rommel; Churchill’s “History of the English-Speaking Peoples” – all four volumes.
Sherlock: Churchill – well, he’s fond of Churchill.  Copy of “The Downing Street Years”; one, two, three, four, five separate biographies of Thatcher.
Sherlock: Mid nineteen eighties at a guess. Father and son: Barrymore senior.  Medals: Distinguished Service Order.
Watson: That date? I’d say Falklands veteran.
Sherlock: Right. So Thatcher’s looking a more likely bet than Churchill.
STAPLETON : So that’s the password?
Sherlock: No. With a man like Major Barrymore, only first name terms would do.
(John comes over from the door to look at the screen. After a slight pause information begins to stream across the screen as everything related to Project H.O.U.N.D. becomes available. Sherlock’s concentration becomes intense as he takes it all in and focuses on certain phrases like “extreme suggestibility”, “fear and stimulus”, “conditioned terror”, “aerosol dispersal”. A photograph comes up of the project team posing happily together and he identifies the five project leaders amongst the larger group: Elaine Dyson, Mary Uslowski, Rick Nader, Jack O’Mara and Leonard Hansen. Clearing the photo from the screen he rearranges the names into another order:
Leonard Hansen
Jack O’Mara
Mary Uslowski
Rick Nader
Elaine Dyson
Standing beside him, Doctor Stapleton finally begins to understand.)
STAPLETON: HOUND.
Watson: Jesus.
Sherlock: Project HOUND: a new deleriant drug which rendered its users incredibly suggestible. They wanted to use it as an anti-personnel w*apon to totally disorientate the enemy using fear and stimulus; but they shut it down and hid it away in nineteen eighty-six.
STAPLETON: Because of what it did to the subjects they tested it on.
Sherlock: And what they did to others. Prolonged exposure drove them insane – made them almost uncontrollably aggressive.
Watson: So someone’s been doing it again – carrying on the experiments?
Sherlock: Attempting to refine it, perhaps, for the last twenty years.
STAPLETON: Who?
Watson: Those names mean anything to you?
STAPLETON: No, not a thing.
Sherlock: Five principal scientists, twenty years ago.
Sherlock: Maybe our friend’s somewhere in the back of the picture – someone who was old enough to be there at the time of the experiments in 1986 ...
Sherlock: Maybe somebody who says “cell phone” because of time spent in America. You remember, John?
Watson: Mmm-hmm.
Sherlock: He gave us his number in case we needed him.
STAPLETON : Oh my God. Bob Frankland. But Bob doesn’t even work on ... I mean, he’s a virologist. This was chemical warfare.
Sherlock: It’s where he started, though ... and he’s never lost the certainty, the obsession that that drug really could work. Nice of him to give us his number.  Let’s arrange a little meeting.
Watson: Hello?
Watson: Who’s this?
MORTIMER : You’ve got to find Henry.
Watson: It’s Louise Mortimer.  Louise, what’s wrong?
MORTIMER : Henry was ... was remembering; then ... he tried ...
MORTIMER: He’s got a g*n. He went for the g*n and tried to ...
Watson: What?
MORTIMER: He’s gone. You’ve got to stop him. I don’t know what he might do.
Watson: Where-where are you?
MORTIMER: His house. I’m okay, I’m okay.
Watson: Right: stay there. We’ll get someone to you, okay?
Sherlock: Henry?
Watson: He’s att*cked her.
Sherlock: Gone?
Watson: Mmm.
Sherlock: There’s only one place he’ll go to: back to where it all started.  Lestrade. Get to the Hollow. ... Dewer’s Hollow, now. And bring a g*n.
With the p*stol still in his hand, Henry is walking briskly across the moors towards the woods surrounding Dewer’s Hollow. Some distance behind him, Sherlock and John race across the terrain in the Land Rover. Unaware of this, Henry continues onwards, stopping momentarily to stare tearfully at the woods ahead of him, but then he continues onwards. Not long afterwards Sherlock pulls up presumably where the woods begin and he and John get out and continue on foot. Henry reaches the lip of the Hollow and begins to make his way down into the misty valley. Reaching the bottom he slows down and stumbles slowly forward, wandering around vaguely for a moment before coming to a halt.
HENRY : I’m sorry. I’m so sorry, Dad.
Sherlock: No, Henry, no! No!
HENRY: Get back. Get – get away from me!
Watson: Easy, Henry. Easy. Just relax.
HENRY: I know what I am. I know what I tried to do!
Watson: Just put the g*n down. It’s okay.
HENRY : No, no, I know what I am!
Sherlock: Yes, I’m sure you do, Henry. It’s all been explained to you, hasn’t it – explained very carefully.
HENRY: What?
Sherlock: Someone needed to keep you quiet; needed to keep you as a child to reassert the dream that you’d both clung on to, because you had started to remember.
Sherlock: Remember now, Henry. You’ve got to remember what happened here when you were a little boy.
HENRY: I thought it had got my dad – the hound. I thought ...
HENRY: Oh Je... oh Jesus, I don’t – I don’t know any more!
Watson: No, Henry! Henry, for God’s sake!
Sherlock: Henry, remember. “Liberty In.” Two words; two words a frightened little boy saw here twenty years ago.
Sherlock: You’d started to piece things together, remember what really happened here that night. It wasn’t an animal, was it, Henry?
Sherlock: Not a monster.
Sherlock: A man.
Sherlock: You couldn’t cope. You were just a child, so you rationalised it into something very different. But then you started to remember, so you had to be stopped; driven out of your mind so that no-one would believe a word that you said.
LESTRADE: Sherlock!
Watson: Okay, it’s okay, mate.
HENRY: But we saw it: the hound, last night. We s... we, we, we did, we saw ...
Sherlock: Yeah, but there was a dog, Henry, leaving footprints, scaring witnesses, but it was nothing more than an ordinary dog. We both saw it – saw it as our drugged minds wanted us to see it. Fear and stimulus; that’s how it works.
Sherlock: But there never was any monster.
Watson: Sherlock ...
HENRY: No.  No, no, no, no!
Sherlock: Henry, Henry ...
Watson: Sherlock ...
Watson: Henry!
LESTRADE : Shit!
Watson: Greg, are you seeing this?
Watson: Right: he is not drugged, Sherlock, so what’s that? What is it?!
Sherlock: All right! It’s still here ...  ... but it’s just a dog. Henry! It’s nothing more than an ordinary dog!
LESTRADE : Oh my God.
LESTRADE: Oh, Christ!
Sherlock: No!
Sherlock: It’s not you! You’re not here!
Sherlock: The fog.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: It’s the fog! The drug: it’s in the fog! Aerosol dispersal – that’s what it said in those records. Project HOUND – it’s the fog! A chemical minefield!
FRANKLAND: For God’s sake, k*ll it! k*ll it!
Sherlock: Look at it, Henry.
HENRY : No, no, no!
Sherlock: Come on, look at it!
HENRY: It’s just ... you bastard.
HENRY: You bastard!
HENRY: Twenty years! Twenty years of my life making no sense! Why didn’t you just k*ll me?!
Sherlock: Because d*ad men get listened to. He needed to do more than k*ll you. He had to discredit every word you ever said about your father, and he had the means right at his feet – a chemical minefield, pressure pads in the ground dosing you up every time that you came back here.
Sherlock: m*rder w*apon and scene of the crime all at once.
Sherlock: Oh, this case, Henry! Thank you. It’s been brilliant.
Watson: Sherlock ...
Sherlock: What?
Watson: Timing.
Sherlock: Not good?
HENRY: No, no, it’s – it’s okay. It’s fine, because this means ...
HENRY: ... this means that my dad was right.
HENRY : He found something out, didn’t he, and that’s why you’d k*lled him – because he was right, and he’d found you right in the middle of an experiment.
Sherlock: Frankland!
Sherlock: Frankland!
LESTRADE : Come on, keep up!
Sherlock: It’s no use, Frankland!
DAY TIME. CROSS KEYS INN. John is sitting at one of the outdoor tables and, for reasons that I’m sure we’d all like an explanation for, appears to be wearing Sherlock’s Purple Shirt of Sex ™. Billy brings out a plate containing whatever is the vegetarian equivalent of a full English breakfast and puts it on the table in front of him.
Watson: Mmm. Thanks, Billy.
Sherlock: So they didn’t have it put down, then – the dog.
Watson: Obviously. Suppose they just couldn’t bring themselves to do it.
Sherlock: I see.
Watson: No you don’t.
Sherlock: No, I don’t. Sentiment?
Watson: Sentiment!
Sherlock: Oh.
Watson: Listen: what happened to me in the lab?
Sherlock: D’you want some sauce with that?
Watson: I mean, I hadn’t been to the Hollow, so how come I heard those things in there? Fear and stimulus, you said.
Sherlock: You must have been dosed with it elsewhere, when you went to the lab, maybe. You saw those pipes – pretty ancient, leaky as a sieve; and they were carrying the gas, so ... Um, ketchup, was it, or brown ...?
Watson: Hang on: you thought it was in the sugar.
Watson: You were convinced it was in the sugar.
Sherlock: Better get going, actually.  There’s a train that leaves in half an hour, so if you want ...
Watson: Oh God. It was you. You locked me in that bloody lab.
Sherlock: I had to. It was an experiment.
Watson: An experiment?!
Sherlock: Shhh.
Watson: I was terrified, Sherlock. I was scared to death.
Sherlock: I thought that the drug was in the sugar, so I put the sugar in your coffee, then I arranged everything with Major Barrymore.
Sherlock: It was all totally scientific, laboratory conditions – well, literally.
Watson: It’s in here with me.
Sherlock: All right. Keep talking. I’ll find you.
Sherlock: Keep talking!
Watson: I can’t, it’ll hear me.
Sherlock: Tell me what you’re seeing!
Watson: I don’t know, but I can hear it now.
Sherlock: Well, I knew what effect it had had on a superior mind, so I needed to try it on an average one.
Sherlock: You know what I mean.
Watson: But it wasn’t in the sugar.
Sherlock: No, well, I wasn’t to know you’d already been exposed to the gas.
Watson: So you got it wrong.
Sherlock: No.
Watson: Mmm. You were wrong. It wasn’t in the sugar. You got it wrong.
Sherlock: A bit. It won’t happen again.
Watson: Any long-term effects?
Sherlock: None at all. You’ll be fine once you’ve excreted it. We all will.
Watson: Think I might have taken care of that already.
Watson: Where’re you going?
Sherlock: Won’t be a minute. Gotta see a man about a dog.
Jim Moriarty sits silently and calmly in a small windowless concrete-lined cell with his eyes closed. In an adjoining room, Mycroft walks towards the other side of the one-way mirror which Jim is facing, and narrows his eyes as he looks closely at the other man.
Some time afterwards, the door to the cell is unlocked and Jim opens his eyes but does not turn around as Mycroft walks in.
Later, Mycroft has left the cell again. A man in a suit has opened the cell door and has walked inside.
MYCROFT : All right. Let him go.
ELLA : Why today?
Watson: D’you want to hear me say it?
ELLA: Eighteen months since our last appointment.
Watson: D’you read the papers?
ELLA: Sometimes.
Watson: Mmm, and you watch telly? You know why I’m here.
Watson: I’m here because ...
ELLA: What happened, John?
Watson: Sher...
ELLA : You need to get it out.
Watson: My best friend ... Sherlock Holmes ...
Watson: ... is d*ad.
Opening Credits.
THREE MONTHS EARLIER. In an art gallery, the Director of the gallery is finishing his speech as he stands near a painting.
GALLERY DIRECTOR: Falls of the Reichenbach, Turner’s masterpiece, thankfully recovered owing to the prodigious talent of Mr. Sherlock Holmes.
DIRECTOR: A small token of our gratitude.
Sherlock: Diamond cufflinks. All my cuffs have buttons.
Watson: He means thank you.
Sherlock: Do I?
Watson: Just say it.
Sherlock: Thank you.
Watson: Hey.
by overlooked clues”. The text of the article reads: “A Turner masterpiece worth £1.7million that was stolen from an auction house ten days ago has been recovered by an amateur detective from North London. Sherlock Holmes of Baker Street has been investigating the art crime simply as a hobby, and yet he was able to follow the trail that lead  him to the famous work – a trail that Scotland Yard missed completely. Sherlock Holmes has gained cult following following the publication of his website – The Sci- ...” at which point the text disappears offscreen. )
yet again. The case has drawn a huge amount of attention as the nation became divided about the outcome of the kidnapping. Bankers are certainly not the nations  sweethearts any more, but Mr. Holmes certainly seems to be. As huge crowds gathered for the press conference, Mr Holmes was presented with a gift from...” and then the text disappears offscreen. Outside the banker’s house, the rescued man is standing with his arms around his wife and young son as the press film and photograph them while Sherlock and John stand uncomfortably nearby.)
FATHER: Back together with my family after my terrifying ordeal; and we have one person to thank for my deliverance – Sherlock Holmes.
Sherlock: Tie pin. I don’t wear ties.
Watson: Shh.
LESTRADE: Peter Ricoletti: number one on Interpol’s Most Wanted list since nineteen eighty-two. But we got him; and there’s one person we have to thank for giving us the decisive leads ... with all his customary diplomacy and tact
Watson: Sarcasm.
Sherlock: Yes.
LESTRADE: We all chipped in.
Sherlock: Oh!
FIRST REPORTER: Put the hat on!
SECOND REPORTER: Put the hat on!
LESTRADE: Yeah, Sherlock, put it on!
Watson: Just get it over with.
221B BAKER STREET. John is sitting on the sofa reading the papers while Sherlock, wearing his blue dressing gown over his shirt and trousers, stomps across the room and throws the Daily Star onto the pile of newspapers on the coffee table.
Sherlock: “Boffin”. “Boffin Sherlock Holmes”.
Watson: Everybody gets one.
Sherlock: One what?
Watson: Tabloid nickname: ‘SuBo’; ‘Nasty Nick’. Shouldn’t worry – I’ll probably get one soon.
Sherlock: Page five, column six, first sentence.
Sherlock: Why is it always the hat photograph?
Watson: “Bachelor John Watson”?
Sherlock: What sort of hat is it anyway?
Watson: “Bachelor”? What the hell are they implying?
Sherlock: Is it a cap? Why has it got two fronts?
Watson: It’s a deerstalker.  “Frequently seen in the company of bachelor John Watson ...”
Sherlock: You stalk a deer with a hat? What are you gonna do – throw it?
Watson: “... confirmed bachelor John Watson”!
Sherlock: Some sort of death frisbee?
Watson: Okay, this is too much. We need to be more careful.
Sherlock: It’s got flaps ... ear flaps. It’s an ear hat, John.
Sherlock: What do you mean, “more careful”?
Watson: I mean this isn’t a deerstalker now; it’s a Sherlock Holmes hat. I mean that you’re not exactly a private detective any more.  You’re this far from famous.
Sherlock: Oh, it’ll pass.
Watson: It’d better pass. The press will turn, Sherlock. They always turn, and they’ll turn on you.
Sherlock: It really bothers you.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: What people say.
Watson: Yes.
Sherlock: About me? I don’t understand – why would it upset you?
Watson: Just try to keep a low profile. Find yourself a little case this week. Stay out of the news.
TOWER OF LONDON 11:00
Tourists are walking about in the grounds, looking around, talking to the Beefeaters, taking photographs. One tourist wearing jeans, trainers, a light grey jacket and a cap with “London” printed on it and with a union flag on the peak is aiming his camera phone around and taking pictures like all the others, but this one appears to be more interested in the security staff than anything else. The other thing that piques his interest is the sign pointing the way to the Crown Jewels. He lowers his camera, chewing nonchalantly on a piece of gum, and we see that this is none other than Jim Moriarty.
At 221B, a phone in the living room trills a text alert. Sherlock is sitting at the table in the kitchen, looking into his microscope. John comes along the corridor leading from Sherlock’s bedroom  with wet hair, wearing a bathrobe and towelling the back of his neck dry.
Watson: It’s your phone.
Sherlock: Mm. Keeps doing that.
Watson: So, did you just talk to him for a really long time?
Sherlock: Oh. Henry Fishgard never committed su1c1de.
Sherlock: Bow Street Runners: missed everything.
Watson: Pressing case, is it?
Sherlock: They’re all pressing ’til they’re solved.
At the White Tower in the Tower of London, tourists are passing through a metal detector on their way to see the Crown Jewels. A security man gives some items back to a tourist.
SECURITY MAN: Put this in your bag, please.
SECURITY MAN: Excuse me, sir.
SECURITY MAN: Any metal objects – keys, mobile phones?
SECURITY MAN: You can go through.
SECURITY MAN: Thank you.
SURVEILLANCE MAN 1: Fancy a cuppa, then, mate?
SURVEILLANCE MAN 2: Yeah, why not?
BANK OF ENGLAND 11:00
A man brings a tray containing a cup and saucer and a milk jug into the office of the bank’s Director.
BANK DIRECTOR : Gilts at seven; Dutch telecoms in freefall. Thank you, Harvey.
PENTONVILLE PRISON 11:00
The prison’s governor, with an enormous “Keep calm and carry on” mug full of tea on his desk, slams a file down onto his desk as several warders sit or stand nearby.
PRISON GOVERNOR: What do you say: refuse them all parole and bring back the rope Let’s begin.
At the Tower, Jim finishes lowering his arms and then lifts up the phone and scrolls through the app icons on it. He pushes aside the one that has a cartoon of a prisoner with striped prison clothes and standing behind bars, scrolls past the one of a piggy bank with the English flag on it, and selects the one with a crown on it. The icon of the crown unfolds like a padlock being unlocked and digital code begins to stream out into the air, and in the surveillance room alarms begin to beep in warning as some of the TV screens go blank. An automated voice plays into the White Tower.
VOICE : This is an emergency. Please leave the building.
SECURITY GUARD: Sir, I’m gonna have to ask you to leave.
At Scotland Yard, Sally Donovan hurries across the office and opens the door to Greg’s office.
DONOVAN: Sir, there’s been a break-in.
LESTRADE : Not our division.
DONOVAN: You’ll want it.
At the White Tower, Jim scrolls through the apps on his phone and selects the English piggy bank. The piggy bank breaks open to reveal many gold coins, and digital code streams out into the air. At the Bank of England, the Director looks down at the cup of tea he is holding as the liquid inside begins to shimmer and the building vibrates gently.
BANK DIRECTOR: The vault!
Greg is driving Sally across the river with sirens blaring. Sally has just got an update on her phone.
LESTRADE: Hacked into the Tower of bloody London security?! How?!
LESTRADE: Tell them we’re already on our way.
DONOVAN: There’s been another one; another break-in.
DONOVAN: Bank of England!
At the White Tower, Jim is chomping on his gum as he flamboyantly scrawls a message onto the glass of the display case. Finishing the message – which we can’t yet clearly see – he draws a smiley face inside the letter “O”. Lifting his phone once more, he selects the app with the prisoner on it. The bars over the prisoner lift away and the striped jacket which the icon is wearing turns into a plain black one, then the image changes to a keyhole. Digital code streams out into the air. In Pentonville Prison, the governor is just lifting his mug to his mouth as alarms begin to sound. A prison warder bursts into the room.
PRISON WARDER: Sir, security’s down, sir. It’s failing!
On the road, Sally gets another phonecall. Greg looks across to her.
LESTRADE: What is it now?
DONOVAN: Pentonville Prison!
LESTRADE: Oh no!
At the White Tower, Jim holds his piece of chewing gum between his teeth and pulls the end of it out towards the case and sticks it onto the glass. Leaving the whole piece of gum stuck there, he takes a tiny diamond from a box and, grinning manically, carefully presses the jewel into the gum. Turning away from the case, he slips his jacket off and drops it to the floor, revealing a plain white V-necked T-shirt underneath, then raises his arms upwards either side above his head in an almost balletic flourish. Outside, police cars and vans begin to pour into the Tower grounds. Jim continues to dance around the White Tower while outside, the last of the tourists are hustled out of the building. Pulling black leather mitts onto his hands, Jim goes to the wall and picks up a f*re extinguisher. Outside, armed police leap out of a van and run into the Tower. Inside, Jim dances dramatically towards the case, raises the f*re extinguisher with the bottom end pointed towards the glass and, grinning happily, rams it towards the chewing gum and diamond. The glass shatters around the impact point. The armed police charge through the metal detector, repeatedly setting the alarm off. Jim smashes the extinguisher into the glass a couple more times and eventually the entire pane disintegrates and falls to the floor.
Greg’s car screams into the grounds and he and Sally jump out and race into the White Tower. Inside, the armed police disable the lock to the door and it swings open. They charge inside and are greeted by the sight of Jim Moriarty sitting on the throne inside the case, wearing an ermine trimmed robe, the crown on his head, the orb between his knees and holding the sceptre across his lap, with his earphones still in. He has his eyes closed in bliss as the music comes to an end. He opens his eyes and smiles at the new arrivals.
JIM : No rush.
221B. Sherlock’s phone trills another text alert. John lowers his newspaper.
Watson: I’ll get it, shall I?
Watson: Here.
Sherlock: Not now, I’m busy.
Watson: Sherlock ...
Sherlock: Not now.
Watson: He’s back.
(Sherlock lifts his head and takes the phone. The message reads:
Come and play.
Tower Hill.
Jim Moriarty x.
Sherlock’s eyes widen and he sinks back on his chair and gazes into space.)
Back at the Tower, Jim is smiling calmly as he is being put into the back of a police car. Behind him, Greg and Sally come out of the building and watch, then Greg looks down at Jim’s phone which he is holding.
Later, Sherlock and John have arrived at the Tower and they are watching the recorded security footage taken from behind Jim as he sticks the gum onto the glass. From a distance it’s not clear what he then pushes into the gum.
LESTRADE: That glass is tougher than anything.
Sherlock: Not tougher than crystallised carbon. He used a diamond.
(Greg adjusts the footage, which shifts to a recording taken from the other side of the glass. The footage also goes into reverse, showing the glass rising back up into place before it shattered. As Jim pulls the f*re extinguisher back again and the glass becomes whole, the message which he scrawled onto it becomes clear. He deliberately wrote the words backwards on the glass so that they would be seen from the camera on the other side of the case. With the smiley face inside the “O”, the message reads:
GET
SHERLOCK
John turns and stares at Sherlock but his eyes are fixed on the screen.)
Nina Simone’s song “Sinnerman” plays over the next few scenes.
The “Daily Express” has somehow obtained the security image with the message clear on the glass, and has run it on its front page with the headline: “Crime of the Century?” The rest of the text reads: “Questions are being asked in parliament as to how the Tower of London, Pentonville Prison and the Bank of England were all broken into at the same time by the same man – James Moriarty. // There are unconfirmed reports that Scotland Yard’s favourite sleuth Mr Sherlock Holmes has been called in to help the team piece together the most audacious crime ... Turn to page 5”.
Some indeterminate time later a new front page headline  reads: ”Jewel Thief on trial at Bailey” and the first few paragraphs read: ”Crown Jewel thief is to be tried at the Old Bailey and Sherlock Holmes is named as a witness for the prosecution. // Master criminal Moriarty taunted Holmes with his graffitied GET SHERLOCK at the scene of the crime. The crime is attracting huge attention internationally too. // Irish born Moriarty – of no fixed abode, seems to be taunting the master detective. // Boffin Holmes, accompanied by confirmed bachelor John Watson – refused to comment. // Crowds gathered yesterday for what is being described as the trial of the century.”
“The Guardian” leads with the headline ”Amateur detective to be called as expert witness” and the strapline ”Scotland Yard calls upon ‘nation’s favourite detective’ in Moriarty trail” . The picture is of Sherlock putting on the deerstalker hat at the Scotland Yard press conference and the text reads: ”In a twist worthy of a Conan Doyle novella, Mr Sherlock Holmes was yesterday revealed to be an expert witness at the trial of ‘Jim’ Moriarty. Described by many commentators as the trial of the century, the case has all the ingredients of a block buster film. The royal family, Scotland yard , the world of finance and greed, the ‘underclass’ of prisoners out to reek  revenge as they enjoy their own fifteen minutes of freedom. The case is riddled with irony and intrigue but perhaps reflects a deeper malaise that seems to be at the heart of a society. // Mr Holmes, a man of few words, declined to comment when asked his involvement in the case. It is understood that a woefully depleted Scotland ...” .
221B. John is standing in front of the mirror in the living room. He is wearing a suit and finishes tying his tie before putting his jacket on. Near the sofa, Sherlock is buttoning up his own jacket. Your transcriber bites her lip. Sherlock leads the way downstairs and goes to the front door, then stops and turns to the side to allow John to pass him and reach out towards the door.
Watson: Ready?
Sherlock: Yes.
Watson: Remember ...
Sherlock: Yes.
Watson: Remember ...
Sherlock: Yes.
Watson: Remember what they told you: don’t try to be clever ...
Sherlock: No.
Watson: ... and please, just keep it simple and brief.
Sherlock: God forbid the star witness at the trial should come across as intelligent.
Watson: ‘Intelligent’, fine; let’s give ‘smart-arse’ a wide berth.
Sherlock: I’ll just be myself.
Watson: Are you listening to me?!
ITN REPORTER: ... here today standing outside ...
SKY NEWS REPORTER: ... This is the trial of the century ...
BBC NEWS REPORTER: ... the trial of James Moriarty ...
SKY NEWS REPORTER: ... James Moriarty, earlier today accused of attempt...
ITN REPORTER: ... of attempting to steal the Crown Jewels ...
BBC NEWS REPORTER: ... at the Old Bailey we have Reichenbach Hero Sherlock Holmes ...
JIM: Would you mind slipping your hand into my pocket?
JIM: Thanks.
Sherlock is in the toilets at the Old Bailey washing his hands.
TANNOY ANNOUNCEMENT: Crown versus Moriarty – please proceed to Court Ten.
KITTY: You’re him.
Sherlock” badge.)
Sherlock: Wrong toilet.
KITTY: I’m a big fan.
Sherlock: Evidently.
KITTY: I read your cases; follow them all.  Sign my shirt, would you?
Sherlock: There are two types of fans.
KITTY: Oh?
Sherlock: “Catch me before I k*ll again” – Type A ...
KITTY: Uh-huh. What’s Type B?
Sherlock: “Your bedroom’s just a taxi ride away.”
KITTY: Guess which one I am.
and does a speed deduction:
pressure marks
pocket
ink
He has the answer instantly.)
Sherlock: Neither.
KITTY : Really?
Sherlock: No. You’re not a fan at all.
Sherlock: Those marks on your forearm: edge of a desk. You’ve been typing in a hurry, probably. Pressure on; facing a deadline.
KITTY : That all?
Sherlock: And there’s a smudge of ink on your wrist; and a bulge in your left jacket pocket.
KITTY: Bit of a giveaway.
Sherlock: The smudge is deliberate, to see if I’m as good as they say I am.
Sherlock: Hmm. Oil-based; used in newspaper print, but drawn on with an index finger; your finger.
KITTY: Hmm!
Sherlock: Journalist. Unlikely you’d get your hands dirty at the press. You put that there to test me.
KITTY: Wow, I’m liking you!
Sherlock: You mean I’d make a great feature: “Sherlock Holmes – the man beneath the hat”.
KITTY: Kitty ...  ... Riley. Pleased to meet you.
Sherlock: No. I’m just saving you the trouble of asking. No, I won’t give you an interview; no, I don’t want the money.
KITTY: You and John Watson – just platonic? Can I put you down for a “no” there, as well?
KITTY: There’s all sorts of gossip in the press about you. Sooner or later you’re gonna need someone on your side ...
KITTY: ... someone to set the record straight.
Sherlock: And you think you’re the girl for that job, do you?
KITTY: I’m smart, and you can trust me, totally.
Sherlock: Smart, okay: investigative journalist. Good. Well, look at me and tell me what you see.
Sherlock: If you’re that skilful, you don’t need an interview. You can just read what you need.
Sherlock: No? Okay, my turn.
Sherlock: I look at you and I see someone who’s still waiting for their first big scoop so that their editor will notice them. You’re wearing an expensive skirt but it’s been re-hemmed twice; only posh skirt you’ve got. And your nails: you can’t afford to do them that often. I see someone who’s hungry. I don’t see smart, and I definitely don’t see trustworthy, but I’ll give you a quote if you like – three little words.
Sherlock: You ... repel ... me.
OLD BAILEY, COURT TEN. Sherlock has been called to give his evidence and is standing in the witness box. Jim is in the dock opposite him, still nonchalantly chewing on his gum. John is sitting in the public gallery upstairs.
PROSECUTING BARRISTER: A “consulting criminal”.
Sherlock: Yes.
PROSECUTING BARRISTER: Your words. Can you expand on that answer?
Sherlock: James Moriarty is for hire.
PROSECUTING BARRISTER: A tradesman?
Sherlock: Yes.
PROSECUTING BARRISTER: But not the sort who’d fix your heating.
Sherlock: No, the sort who’d plant a b*mb or stage an assassination, but I’m sure he’d make a pretty decent job of your boiler.
PROSECUTING BARRISTER: Would you describe him as ...
Sherlock: Leading.
PROSECUTING BARRISTER: What?
Sherlock: Can’t do that. You’re leading the witness.  He’ll object and the judge will uphold.
JUDGE: Mr. Holmes.
Sherlock: Ask me how. How would I describe him? What opinion have I formed of him? Do they not teach you this?
JUDGE: Mr. Holmes, we’re fine without your help.
PROSECUTING BARRISTER: How would you describe this man – his character?
Sherlock: First mistake.  James Moriarty isn’t a man at all – he’s a spider; a spider at the centre of a web – a criminal web with a thousand threads and he knows precisely how each and every single one of them dances.
PROSECUTING BARRISTER: And how long ...
Sherlock: No, no, don’t-don’t do that. That’s really not a good question.
JUDGE : Mr. Holmes.
Sherlock: How long have I known him? Not really your best line of enquiry. We met twice, five minutes in total. I pulled a g*n; he tried to blow me up.  I felt we had a special something.
JUDGE: Miss Sorrel, are you seriously claiming this man is an expert, after knowing the accused for just five minutes?
Sherlock: Two minutes would have made me an expert. Five was ample.
JUDGE: Mr. Holmes, that’s a matter for the jury.
Sherlock: Oh, really?
Sherlock: One librarian; two teachers; two high-pressured jobs, probably the City.
Sherlock: The foreman’s a medical secretary, trained abroad judging by her shorthand.
JUDGE: Mr. Holmes!
Sherlock: Seven are married and two are having an affair – with each other, it would seem! Oh, and they’ve just had tea and biscuits.
Sherlock: Would you like to know who ate the wafer?
JUDGE : Mr. Holmes. You’ve been called here to answer Miss Sorrel’s questions, not to give us a display of your intellectual prowess.
JUDGE: Keep your answers brief and to the point. Anything else will be treated as contempt. Do you think you could survive for just a few minutes without showing off?
Shortly afterwards, a prison officer marches Sherlock into one of the cells under the courts and shoves him inside, slamming the door shut behind him. A recess has apparently been called in the trial and so a little later two more officers walk Jim to the adjoining cell and lock him inside. As if sensing each other, the two men turn and look at the wall separating them. Jim’s expression slowly becomes m*rder.
Some time later Sherlock is being released. As he signs for his personal property, John is standing beside him leaning back on the desk with his arms folded.
Watson: What did I say? I said, “Don’t get clever.”
Sherlock: I can’t just turn it on and off like a tap.
Sherlock: Well?
Watson: Well what?
Sherlock: You were there for the whole thing, up in the gallery, start to finish.
Watson: Like you said it would be ...  ... he sat on his backside, never even stirred.
Sherlock: Moriarty’s not mounting any defence.
221B. The boys walk into the living room.
Watson: Bank of England, Tower of London, Pentonville. Three of the most secure places in the country and six weeks ago Moriarty breaks in, no-one knows how or why.
Watson: All we know is ...
Sherlock: ... he ended up in custody.
Watson: Don’t do that.
Sherlock: Do what?
Watson: The look.
Sherlock: Look?
Watson: You’re doing the look again.
Sherlock: Well, I can’t see it, can I?
Sherlock: It’s my face.
Watson: Yes, and it’s doing a thing. You’re doing a “we both know what’s really going on here” face.
Sherlock: Well, we do.
Watson: No. I don’t, which is why I find The Face so annoying.
Sherlock: If Moriarty wanted the Jewels, he’d have them. If he wanted those prisoners free, they’d be out on the streets. The only reason he’s still in a prison cell right now is because he chose to be there.
Sherlock: Somehow this is part of his scheme.
NEXT DAY . OLD BAILEY.
JUDGE: Mr. Crayhill, can we have your first witness?
DEFENDING BARRISTER: Your Honour, we’re not calling any witnesses.
JUDGE: I don’t follow. You’ve entered a plea of Not Guilty.
DEFENDING BARRISTER: Nevertheless, my client is offering no evidence. The defence rests.
Not long afterwards, Sherlock – who chose to stay back at home – sits up sideways on the sofa with his back against the arm nearest the window. Wearing his blue dressing gown over his clothes, he softly recites the only words that the judge can possibly say in his summing-up speech. His recitation is interspersed with the actual words from the judge, and frequently their lines overlap.
SHERLOCK/JUDGE: Ladies and gentlemen of the jury. James Moriarty stands accused of several counts of attempted burglary, crimes which – if he’s found guilty – will elicit a very long custodial sentence; and yet his legal team has chosen to offer no evidence whatsoever to support their plea. I find myself in the unusual position of recommending a verdict wholeheartedly. You must find him guilty.
Sherlock: Guilty.
JUDGE: You must find him guilty.
CLERK: They’re coming back.
Watson: That’s six minutes.
)
CLERK: Surprised it took them that long, to be honest. There’s a queue for the loo.
CLERK: Have you reached a verdict on which you all agree?
At 221B, Sherlock’s phone begins to ring. His eyes snap open. Outside the court, John is hurrying along the pavement.
Watson: Not Guilty. They found him Not Guilty. No defence, and Moriarty’s walked free.
Watson: Sherlock. Are you listening? He’s out. You-you know he’ll be coming after you. Sher...
Sherlock: Most people knock.  But then you’re not most people, I suppose.
Sherlock: Kettle’s just boiled.
JIM: Johann Sebastian would be appalled.
, he looks around the living room as if searching for a seat.)
JIM: May I?
Sherlock: Please.
JIM: You know when he was on his death bed, Bach, he heard his son at the piano playing one of his pieces. The boy stopped before he got to the end ...
Sherlock: ... and the dying man jumped out of his bed, ran straight to the piano and finished it.
JIM: Couldn’t cope with an unfinished melody.
Sherlock: Neither can you. That’s why you’ve come.
JIM: But be honest: you’re just a tiny bit pleased.
Sherlock: What, with the verdict?
JIM: With me ...  ... back on the streets.  Every fairytale needs a good old-fashioned villain.
JIM: You need me, or you’re nothing. Because we’re just alike, you and I – except you’re boring.
JIM: You’re on the side of the angels.
Sherlock: Got to the jury, of course.
JIM: I got into the Tower of London; you think I can’t worm my way into twelve hotel rooms?
Sherlock: Cable network.
JIM : Every hotel bedroom has a personalised TV screen ...
JIM : ... and every person has their pressure point; someone that they want to protect from harm.
JIM : Easy-peasy.
Sherlock: So how’re you going to do it ...
Sherlock: ... burn me?
JIM : Oh, that’s the problem – the final problem. Have you worked out what it is yet?
JIM: What’s the final problem?
JIM: I did tell you ...  ... but did you listen?
JIM : How hard do you find it, having to say “I don’t know”?
Sherlock: I dunno.
JIM: Oh, that’s clever; that’s very clever; awfully clever.
JIM: Speaking of clever, have you told your little friends yet?
Sherlock: Told them what?
JIM: Why I broke into all those places and never took anything.
Sherlock: No.
JIM: But you understand.
Sherlock: Obviously.
JIM: Off you go, then.
Sherlock: You want me to tell you what you already know?
JIM: No; I want you to prove that you know it.
Sherlock: You didn’t take anything because you don’t need to.
JIM : Good.
Sherlock: You’ll never need to take anything ever again.
JIM: Very good. Because ...?
Sherlock: Because nothing ... nothing in the Bank of England, the Tower of London or Pentonville Prison could possibly match the value of the key that could get you into all three.
JIM: I can open any door anywhere with a few tiny lines of computer code. No such thing as a private bank account now – they’re all mine. No such thing as secrecy – I own secrecy. Nuclear codes – I could blow up NATO in alphabetical order. In a world of locked rooms, the man with the key is king; and honey, you should see me in a crown.
Sherlock: You were advertising all the way through the trial. You were showing the world what you can do.
JIM: And you were helping. Big client list: rogue governments, intelligence communities ... t*rror1st cells. They all want me.
JIM: Suddenly, I’m Mr. Sex.
Sherlock: If you could break any bank, what do you care about the highest bidder?
JIM: I don’t. I just like to watch them all competing. “Daddy loves me the best!” Aren’t ordinary people adorable? Well, you know: you’ve got John. I should get myself a live-in one.
Sherlock: Why are you doing all of this?
JIM : It’d be so funny.
Sherlock: You don’t want money or power – not really.
Sherlock: What is it all for?
JIM : I want to solve the problem – our problem; the final problem.
JIM: It’s gonna start very soon, Sherlock: the fall.
JIM: But don’t be scared. Falling’s just like flying except there’s a more permanent destination.
Sherlock: Never liked riddles.
JIM: Learn to. Because I owe you a fall, Sherlock. I ... owe ... you.
The next morning the “Daily Express” front page headline screams “MORIARTY WALKS FREE” with the strapline “Shock verdict at Old Bailey trial”. The opening paragraph reads: “The Judge could only look on dumbfounded as the Jury found ‘Jimbo’ Moriarty ‘Not Guilty’. Gasps were heard around the courtroom as the Jury declared their verdict”. “The Guardian” declares “Shock verdict at trial” and the article begins, “In an unbelievable turn of events Moriarty walked free today after putting up no defence at all for what has been described as the Trial of the Century. Star witness Sherlock Holmes was not present for the verdict as in another twist to the case was thrown out of court by the Judge. Questions have been asked in Parliament and the Prime Minister was quoted as saying ‘This is a disgrace, a sign if ever we needed one that broken Britain is still broken...” . The “Daily Star” goes with “How was he ever acquitted” .
Some time later “The Guardian” declares “Moriarty vanishes” while on one of its inside pages is a cartoon caricature of Sherlock holding a crystal ball with the caption underneath reading, “What Next for the Reichenbach Hero?”
TWO MONTHS LATER.
John goes to a NatWest cashpoint machine and inserts his card. Typing in his PIN, he then selects a transaction. After a few seconds he is greeted with the onscreen message:
There is a problem with
your card
Please wait
(John grimaces and a second later a new message appears:
Thank you for
your patience.
A moment later the message adds:
John
John frowns and behind him a black car pulls up to the kerb and stops. John turns and looks at it, then turns back to the ATM, sighing in exasperation. However, he still hasn’t learned his lesson about getting into strange cars and apparently meekly gets in and allows himself to be driven to an elegant white painted building which has a brass plaque outside declaring the venue to be THE DIOGENES CLUB. He goes inside and enters a large room which – back when the building used to be a house – was probably a drawing room. A large marble fireplace surrounds an unlit f*re and the walls have heavy wooden panelling and ornate white plaster coving. The room contains five small round tables, each with a single armchair beside it, and four of them are currently occupied by smartly dressed middle aged or elderly gentlemen reading newspapers and taking no notice of each other or of the new arrival. John looks around and then walks over to one of the older men sitting at the far end of the room.)
Watson: Er, excuse me. Um, I’m looking for Mycroft Holmes.
Watson: Would you happen to know if he’s around at all?
Watson: Can you not hear me?
Watson: Yes, all right.
Watson: Anyone?
Watson: Anyone at all know where Mycroft Holmes is? I’ve been asked to meet him here.
Watson: No takers? Right.  Am I invisible? Can you actually see me?
Watson: Ah, thanks, gents.
Watson: I’ve been asked to meet Mycroft Holm...
Watson: What the ...? Hey!
Shortly afterwards John has been taken to a smaller room and the door has been closed firmly behind him. Mycroft is in the room with him and pours himself a drink from a crystal decanter.
MYCROFT: Tradition, John. Our traditions define us.
Watson: So total silence is traditional, is it? You can’t even say, “Pass the sugar.”
MYCROFT: Three-quarters of the diplomatic service and half the government front bench all sharing one tea trolley. It’s for the best, believe me.
MYCROFT: They don’t want a repeat of nineteen seventy-two. But we can talk in here.
Watson: You read this stuff?
MYCROFT: Caught my eye.
Watson: Mmm-hmm.
MYCROFT: Saturday: they’re doing a big exposé.
.)
Watson: I’d love to know where she got her information.
MYCROFT: Someone called Brook. Recognise the name?
Watson: School friend, maybe?
MYCROFT: Of Sherlock’s?  But that’s not why I asked you here.
Watson: Who’s that?
MYCROFT: Don’t know him?
Watson: No.
MYCROFT: Never seen his face before?
Watson: Umm ...
MYCROFT: He’s taken a flat in Baker Street, two doors down from you.
Watson: Hmm! I was thinking of doing a drinks thing for the neighbours.
MYCROFT: Not sure you’ll want to.  Sulejmani. Albanian h*t squad. Expertly-trained k*ller living less than twenty feet from your front door.
Watson: It’s a great location. Jubilee line’s handy.
MYCROFT: John ...
Watson: What’s it got to do with me?
MYCROFT : Dyachenko, Ludmila.
Watson: Um, actually, I think I have seen her.
MYCROFT: Russian k*ller. She’s taken the flat opposite.
Watson: Okay ... I’m sensing a pattern here.
MYCROFT : In fact, four top international assassins relocate to within spitting distance of two hundred and twenty-one B. Anything you care to share with me?
Watson: I’m moving?!
MYCROFT: It’s not hard to guess the common denominator, is it?
Watson: You think this is Moriarty?
MYCROFT: He promised Sherlock he’d come back.
Watson: If this was Moriarty, we’d be d*ad already.
MYCROFT: If not Moriarty, then who?
Watson: Why don’t you talk to Sherlock if you’re so concerned about him?
Watson: Oh God, don’t tell me.
MYCROFT: Too much history between us, John. Old scores; resentments.
Watson: Nicked all his Smurfs? Broke his Action Man?
Watson: Finished.
MYCROFT: We both know what’s coming, John.
MYCROFT: Moriarty is obsessed. He’s sworn to destroy his only rival.
Watson: So you want me to watch out for your brother because he won’t accept your help.
MYCROFT: If it’s not too much trouble.
221B. A taxi drops John off opposite the flat. As he crosses the road, he can’t help but be aware of people passing by in the street, wondering if any of them are the assassins keeping an eye on the flat. As John reaches the front door – which is standing wide open – he sees that a brown envelope has been left on the doorstep. There is nothing written on the front but the back has a large old fashioned wax seal on it. He peels open one corner of the envelope and puts his finger in to slide it along the edge and slice the rest of the envelope open. Immediately a lot of brown dust, with some larger chunks of brown something, fall out. As he catches some of the debris and looks at it, a man’s Cockney voice speaks behind him.
MAN: ’Scuse, mate.
Watson: Oh.
into the hallway. John follows him in, putting the envelope into his pocket as he goes. He trots upstairs and goes into the living room.)
Watson: Sherlock, something weird ...
Watson: What’s going on?
Sherlock: Kidnapping.
LESTRADE: Rufus Bruhl, the ambassador to the U.S.
Watson: He’s in Washington, isn’t he?
LESTRADE: Not him – his children, Max and Claudette, age seven and nine.
LESTRADE: They’re at St Aldate’s.
DONOVAN: Posh boarding place down in Surrey.
LESTRADE : The school broke up; all the other boarders went home – just a few kids remained, including those two.
DONOVAN: The kids have vanished.
LESTRADE: The ambassador’s asked for you personally.
DONOVAN : The Reichenbach Hero.
LESTRADE: Isn’t it great to be working with a celebrity
ST ALDATE’S SCHOOL. Greg’s car drives into the grounds of the boarding school and pulls up outside the front entrance. Two police cars are already there and a woman is standing in front of one of them, leaning against the bonnet wearing a shock blanket around her shoulders and crying while a uniformed female police officer talks reassuringly to her. A man, probably a plain clothed police officer, is talking to her but walks away as Greg, Sally and the boys get out of the car and approach. The woman bl*ws her nose on her handkerchief.
FEMALE POLICE OFFICER : It’s all right.
LESTRADE : Miss Mackenzie, House Mistress. Go easy.
Sherlock: Miss Mackenzie, you’re in charge of pupil welfare, yet you left this place wide open last night.  What are you: an idiot, a drunk or a criminal?
Sherlock: Now quickly, tell me!
MISS MACKENZIE : All the doors and windows were properly bolted. No-one – not even me – went into their room last night. You have to believe me!
Sherlock: I do. I just wanted you to speak quickly.
Sherlock: Miss Mackenzie will need to breathe into a bag now.
Watson: Six grand a term, you’d expect them to keep the kids safe for you. You said the other kids had all left on their holidays?
LESTRADE: They were the only two sleeping on this floor. Absolutely no sign of a break-in.
LESTRADE: The intruder must have been hidden inside some place.
Sherlock: Show me where the brother slept.
Sherlock: The boy sleeps there every night, gazing at the only light source outside in the corridor. He’d recognise every shape, every outline, the silhouette of everyone who came to the door.
LESTRADE: Okay, so ...
Sherlock: So someone approaches the door who he doesn’t recognise, an intruder. Maybe he can even see the outline of a w*apon.
Sherlock: What would he do in the precious few seconds before they came into the room? How would he use them if not to cry out?
Sherlock: This little boy; this particular little boy ...  ... who reads all of those spy books. What would he do?
Watson: He’d leave a sign?
Sherlock: Get Anderson.
Not long afterwards the room has been darkened as much as possible by closing the wooden shutters over the windows. Sherlock shines an ultraviolet light on the wall beside the boy’s bed where the words “HELP US” have been written on the wall, only now visible in the light.
Sherlock: Linseed oil.
ANDERSON: Not much use. Doesn’t lead us to the kidnapper.
Sherlock: Brilliant, Anderson.
ANDERSON: Really?
Sherlock: Yes. Brilliant impression of an idiot.
Sherlock: The floor.
Watson: He made a trail for us!
Sherlock: The boy was made to walk ahead of them.
Watson: On, what, tiptoe?
Sherlock: Indicates anxiety; a g*n held to his head.
Sherlock: The girl was pulled beside him, dragged sideways. He had his left arm cradled about her neck.
ANDERSON: That’s the end of it. We don’t know where they went from here.
ANDERSON: Tells us nothing after all.
Sherlock: You’re right, Anderson – nothing.
Sherlock: Except his shoe size, his height, his gait, his walking pace.
Watson: Having fun?
Sherlock: Starting to.
Watson: Maybe don’t do the smiling.
Watson: Kidnapped children?
LONDON. Sherlock and John are in a taxi.
Watson: But how did he get past the CCTV? If all the doors were locked ...
Sherlock: He walked in when they weren’t locked.
Watson: But a stranger can’t just walk into a school like that.
Sherlock: Anyone can walk in anywhere if they pick the right moment. Yesterday – end of term, parents milling around, chauffeurs, staff. What’s one more stranger among that lot?
Sherlock: He was waiting for them. All he had to do was find a place to hide.
ST BARTHOLOMEW’S HOSPITAL. Molly Hooper walks along a corridor, pulling her coat on. Just as she reaches the f*re doors at the end of the corridor, Sherlock and John walk through them.
Sherlock: Molly!
MOLLY: Oh, hello. I’m just going out.
Sherlock: No you’re not.
MOLLY: I’ve got a lunch date.
Sherlock: Cancel it. You’re having lunch with me.
MOLLY: What?
Sherlock: Need your help. It’s one of your old boyfriends – we’re trying to track him down. He’s been a bit naughty!
Watson: It’s Moriarty?
Sherlock: Course it’s Moriarty.
MOLLY: Er, Jim actually wasn’t even my boyfriend. We went out three times. I ended it.
Sherlock: Yes, and then he stole the Crown Jewels, broke into the Bank of England and organised a prison break at Pentonville. For the sake of law and order, I suggest you avoid all future attempts at a relationship, Molly.
Shortly afterwards, wearing her lab coat, she pushes her way through the door into Sherlock’s favourite lab weighed down by the huge pile of books and files she is carrying. As she staggers into the room, Sherlock is sitting at the bench in front of a microscope. John is standing at the other side of the bench.
Sherlock: Oil, John.
Sherlock: The oil in the kidnapper’s footprint – it’ll lead us to Moriarty.
Sherlock: All the chemical traces on his shoe have been preserved. The sole of the shoe is like a passport. If we’re lucky we can see everything that he’s been up to.
Sherlock: I need that analysis.
MOLLY: Alkaline.
Sherlock: Thank you, John.
MOLLY: Molly.
Sherlock: Yes.
(She turns away unhappily. Sherlock has found the first component in the mixture of items and makes a note of it:
1. Chalk
He takes another sample and dissolves it. The results reveal another item:
2. Asphalt
Dissolving another sample into a dish:
3. Brick Dust
And another sample dissolved and heated over a Bunsen burner:
4. Vegetation
Later, he has another sample on a slide and is looking at it in the microscope. He quietly murmurs to himself.)
Sherlock: I ... owe ... you.
Sherlock: Glycerol molecule.
(He sighs heavily as he struggles to identify the item, seeing it in his head as:
5. ?
Sherlock: What are you?
MOLLY: What did you mean, “I owe you”?
MOLLY: You said, “I owe you”. You were muttering it while you were working.
Sherlock: Nothing. Mental note.
MOLLY: You’re a bit like my dad. He’s d*ad.
MOLLY: No, sorry.
Sherlock: Molly, please don’t feel the need to make conversation. It’s really not your area.
MOLLY: When he was ... dying, he was always cheerful; he was lovely – except when he thought no-one could see. I saw him once. He looked sad.
Sherlock: Molly ...
MOLLY: You look sad ...  ... when you think he can’t see you.
MOLLY: Are you okay?
MOLLY: And don’t just say you are, because I know what that means, looking sad when you think no-one can see you.
Sherlock: You can see me.
MOLLY: I don’t count.
MOLLY: What I’m trying to say is that, if there’s anything I can do, anything you need, anything at all, you can have me.
MOLLY: No, I just mean ... I mean if there’s anything you need ...
MOLLY: It’s fine.
Sherlock: What-what-what could I need from you?
MOLLY : Nothing.  I dunno. You could probably say thank you, actually.
Sherlock: ... Thank you.
MOLLY: I’m just gonna go and get some crisps. Do you want anything?
MOLLY: It’s okay, I know you don’t.
Sherlock: Well, actually, maybe I’ll ...
MOLLY: I know you don’t.
Watson: Sherlock.
Sherlock: Hmm?
Watson: This envelope that was in her trunk. There’s another one.
Sherlock: What?
Watson: On our doorstep. Found it today.
Watson: Yes, and look at that.
Watson: Look at that. Exactly the same seal.
Sherlock: Breadcrumbs.
Watson: Uh-huh. It was there when I got back.
Sherlock: A little trace of breadcrumbs; hardback copy of fairy tales.
Sherlock: Two children led into the forest by a wicked father follow a little trail of breadcrumbs.
Watson: That’s “Hansel and Gretel.” What sort of kidnapper leaves clues?
Sherlock: The sort that likes to boast; the sort that thinks it’s all a game. He sat in our flat and he said these exact words to me ...
SHERLOCK/JIM: All fairytales need a good old-fashioned villain.
Sherlock: The fifth substance: it’s part of the tale.
Sherlock: The witch’s house.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: The glycerol molecule.
(The final element in the sample becomes clear to him:
5. PGPR
Sherlock: PGPR!
Watson: What’s that?
Sherlock: It’s used in making chocolate.
SCOTLAND YARD. Greg hands a sheet of paper to Sherlock as he leads him and John into the department’s main office.
LESTRADE: This fax arrived an hour ago.
(There is a large handwritten note on the paper saying:
HURRY UP
THEY’RE
DYING!
Sherlock hands the note to John.)
LESTRADE: What have you got for us?
Sherlock: Need to find a place in the city where all five of these things intersect.
LESTRADE: Chalk, asphalt, brick dust, vegetation ... What the hell is this? Chocolate?
Sherlock: I think we’re looking for a disused sweet factory.
LESTRADE: We need to narrow that down. A sweet factory with asphalt?
Sherlock: No. No-no-no. Too general. Need something more specific. Chalk; chalky clay – that’s a far thinner band of geology.
LESTRADE: Brick dust?
Sherlock: Building site. Bricks from the nineteen fifties.
LESTRADE : There’s thousands of building sites in London.
Sherlock: I’ve got people out looking.
LESTRADE: So have I.
Sherlock: Homeless network – faster than the police.  Far more relaxed about taking bribes.
Sherlock: John.
Sherlock: Rhododendron ponticum. It matches.
Sherlock: Addlestone.
LESTRADE: What?
Sherlock: There’s a mile of disused factories between the river and the park. It matches everything.
LESTRADE: Right, come on.
LESTRADE: Come on!
ADDLESTONE. Several police cars race to a disused factory and the police officers, together with Sherlock and John, run inside the dark building. Everyone switches on flashlights and Sally coordinates the police as they start to search in all directions.
DONOVAN: You, look over there. Look everywhere. Okay, spread out, please. Spread out.
LESTRADE : Look in there. Quietly. Quietly.
Sherlock: This was alight moments ago.
Sherlock: They’re still here.
Sherlock: Sweet wrappers. What’s he been feeding you?
Sherlock: Hansel and Gretel.
Sherlock: Mercury.
LESTRADE: What?
Sherlock: The papers: they’re painted with mercury.
Sherlock: Lethal. The more of the stuff they ate ...
Watson: It was k*lling them.
Sherlock: But it’s not enough to k*ll them on its own. Taken in large enough quantities, eventually it would k*ll them.
Sherlock: He didn’t need to be there for the execution. m*rder by remote control. He could be a thousand miles away.
Sherlock: The hungrier they got, the more they ate ... the faster they d*ed.
Sherlock: Neat.
Watson: Sherlock.
DONOVAN : Over here!
DONOVAN: I’ve got you. Don’t worry.
SCOTLAND YARD. Sherlock is pacing outside an office while John sits nearby. The door to the office opens and Sally and Greg come out.
DONOVAN : Right, then. The professionals have finished. If the amateurs wanna go in and have their turn ...
LESTRADE: Now, remember, she’s in shock and she’s just seven years old, so anything you can do to ...
Sherlock: ... not be myself.
LESTRADE: Yeah. Might be helpful.
Sherlock: Claudette, I ...
Sherlock: No-no, I know it’s been hard for you.
Sherlock: Claudette, listen to me ...
LESTRADE: Out. Get out!
Shortly afterwards, Sherlock is standing at the window of another office looking out into the night through the slats of the Venetian blinds. Sally stands at the other side of the office watching him thoughtfully.
Watson: Makes no sense.
LESTRADE: The kid’s traumatised. Something about Sherlock reminds her of the kidnapper.
Watson: So what’s she said?
DONOVAN: Hasn’t uttered another syllable.
Watson: And the boy?
LESTRADE: No, he’s unconscious; still in intensive care.
(In the building opposite Scotland Yard, all the lights in the offices come on. On the second floor, spray paint has been applied to three of the office windows. Sherlock stares at the enormous letters that have been painted:
I O U
Seconds later, the lights on that floor go out again. Behind Sherlock, the others are unaware of what he has just seen because the view was blocked by the blinds.)
LESTRADE: Well, don’t let it get to you. I always feel like screaming when you walk into a room! In fact, so do most people.
LESTRADE: Come on.
DONOVAN: Brilliant work you did, finding those kids from just a footprint. It’s really amazing.
Sherlock: Thank you.
DONOVAN : Unbelievable.
Watson: Ah.
Watson: You okay?
Sherlock: Thinking.
Sherlock: This is my cab. You get the next one.
Watson: Why?
Sherlock: You might talk.
Back inside Scotland Yard, Sally is in a large office and has scattered all the police photographs and other evidence over a long table. She stands looking down at everything thoughtfully. Greg walks along the corridor outside and notices her. He stops and looks into the room as Sally ment*lly plays back earlier moments.
LESTRADE: What the hell is this? Chocolate?
Sherlock: I think we’re looking for a disused sweet factory.
LESTRADE: Get out!
LESTRADE: Problem?
TAXI. Sherlock sits in the back lost in thought. Partway into the journey, the TV screen on the back of the driver’s seat switches on and an advertisement starts to play. London Taxi Shopping is advertising jewellery.
VOICEOVER: This is a stunning evening wear set from us here at London Taxi Shopping.
Sherlock: Can you turn this off, please?
VOICEOVER: As you can see, the set comprises of a beautiful ...
Sherlock: Can you turn this off ...
JIM: Hullo. Are you ready for the story? This is the story of Sir Boast-a-lot.
SCOTLAND YARD. Sally is showing Greg one of the photographs.
DONOVAN: The footprint. It’s all he has. A footprint.
LESTRADE: Yeah, well, you know what he’s like – CSI Baker Street.
DONOVAN: Well, our boys couldn’t have done it.
LESTRADE: Well, that’s why we need him. He’s better.
DONOVAN: That’s one explanation.
LESTRADE: And what’s the other?
TAXI. Jim’s image continues to smile from the TV screen.
JIM: Sir Boast-a-lot was the bravest and cleverest knight at the Round Table, but soon the other knights began to grow tired of his stories about how brave he was and how many dragons he’d slain ...
JIM: And soon they began to wonder ...
JIM: ... ‘Are Sir Boast-a-lot’s stories even true?’
SCOTLAND YARD
DONOVAN : Only he could have found that evidence.
TAXI. Jim shakes his head.
JIM: Oh, no.
SCOTLAND YARD.
DONOVAN: And then the girl screams her head off when she sees him – a man she has never seen before ... unless she had seen him before.
LESTRADE: Wh-what’s your point?
DONOVAN: You know what my point is. You just don’t wanna think about it.
JIM : So one of the knights went to King Arthur and said ...  ... ‘I don’t believe Sir Boast-a-lot’s stories. He’s just a big old liar who makes things up to make himself look good.’
LESTRADE: You’re not seriously suggesting he’s involved, are you?
ANDERSON: I think we have to entertain the possibility.
JIM : And then even the King began to wonder ...
JIM : But that wasn’t the end of Sir Boast-a-lot’s problem. No.
JIM: That wasn’t the final problem.
JIM: The End.
Sherlock: Stop the cab! Stop the cab!
Sherlock: What was that?
Sherlock: What was that?
JIM: No charge.
MAN: Look out!
Sherlock: Thank you.
Watson: Sherlock!
Some time later Sherlock stands twitching his fingers fretfully as an ambulance crew wheels Sulejmani’s body away.
Watson: That ... it’s him. It’s him. Sulejmani or something. Mycroft showed me his file. He’s a big Albanian gangster lives two doors down from us.
Sherlock: He d*ed because I shook his hand.
Watson: What d’you mean?
Sherlock: He saved my life but he couldn’t touch me. Why?
221B. Sherlock walks rapidly into the living room, pulling his scarf and then his coat off as he goes across to the laptop on the table. Sadly, at this point he stops removing clothing.
Sherlock: Four assassins living right on our doorstep. They didn’t come here to k*ll me; they have to keep me alive.
Sherlock: I’ve got something that all of them want, but if one of them approaches me ...
Watson: ... the others k*ll them before they can get it.
Sherlock: All of the attention is focussed on me. There’s a surveillance web closing in on us right now.
Watson: So what have you got that’s so important?
Sherlock: We need to ask about the dusting.
Shortly afterwards, Mrs Hudson has been dragged upstairs in her nightdress and dressing gown. Sherlock is hurrying around the room checking for dust on all the furniture.
Sherlock: Precise details: in the last week, what’s been cleaned?
MRS HUDSON: Well, Tuesday I did your lino ...
Sherlock: No, in here, this room. This is where we’ll find it – any break in the dust line. You can put back anything but dust.
Sherlock: Dust is eloquent.
MRS HUDSON : What’s he on about?
Sherlock: Cameras. We’re being watched.
MRS HUDSON: What? Cameras?  Here? I’m in my nightie!
Sherlock: No, Inspector.
LESTRADE: What?
Sherlock: The answer’s no.
LESTRADE: But you haven’t heard the question!
Sherlock: You want to take me to the station. Just saving you the trouble of asking.
LESTRADE: Sherlock ...
Sherlock: The scream?
LESTRADE: Yeah.
Sherlock: Who was it? Donovan? I bet it was Donovan. Am I somehow responsible for the kidnapping? Ah, Moriarty is smart. He planted that doubt in her head; that little nagging sensation. You’re gonna have to be strong to resist. You can’t k*ll an idea, can you? Not once it’s made a home ...  ... there.
LESTRADE: Will you come?
Sherlock: One photograph – that’s his next move. Moriarty’s game: first the scream, then a photograph of me being taken in for questioning. He wants to destroy me inch by inch.
Sherlock: It is a game, Lestrade, and not one I’m willing to play.
Sherlock: Give my regards to Sergeant Donovan.
, then turns back towards Sherlock  who has now linked the camera into the computer so that he can pull up the footage on the computer screen. Downstairs, Greg walks along the hallway and glowers at Sally who is waiting at the front door. He walks past her and out into the street. She turns and watches him unhappily, then follows. Upstairs, John has gone over to the right-hand window and looks out at the car parked outside as Greg and Sally go over to it and get in, Greg glancing up towards the window momentarily. As the car starts, Sherlock briefly looks at John.)
Sherlock: They’ll be deciding.
Watson: Deciding?
Sherlock: Whether to come back with a warrant and arrest me.
Watson: You think?
Sherlock: Standard procedure.
Watson: Should have gone with him. People’ll think ...
Sherlock: I don’t care what people think.
Watson: You’d care if they thought you were stupid, or wrong.
Sherlock: No, that would just make them stupid or wrong.
Watson: Sherlock, I don’t want the world believing you’re ...
Sherlock: That I am what?
Watson: A fraud.
Sherlock: You’re worried they’re right.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: You’re worried they’re right about me.
Watson: No.
Sherlock: That’s why you’re so upset. You can’t even entertain the possibility that they might be right. You’re afraid that you’ve been taken in as well.
Watson: No I’m not.
Sherlock: Moriarty is playing with your mind too.  Can’t you see what’s going on?
Watson: No, I know you’re for real.
Sherlock: A hundred percent?
Watson: Well, nobody could fake being such an annoying dick all the time.
SCOTLAND YARD. Greg is sitting in front of the desk of the Chief Superintendant while Sally and Anderson stand nearby. The Chief walks around his desk to sit down behind it.
CHIEF SUPERINTENDANT: Sherlock Holmes?
LESTRADE: Yes, sir.
CHIEF SUPERINTENDANT: That bloke that’s been in the press.
LESTRADE: Mmm-hmm.
CHIEF SUPERINTENDANT: I thought he was some sort of private eye.
LESTRADE: He is.
CHIEF SUPERINTENDANT: We’ve been consulting with him – that’s what you’re ... you’re telling me?
CHIEF SUPERINTENDANT: Not used him on any proper cases, though, have we?
LESTRADE: Well, one or two.
ANDERSON : Or twenty or thirty.
CHIEF SUPERINTENDANT: What?
LESTRADE: Look, I’m not the only senior officer who did this. Gregson ...
CHIEF SUPERINTENDANT : Shut up! An amateur detective given access to all sorts of classified information, and now he’s a suspect in a case!
LESTRADE: With all due respect, sir ...
CHIEF SUPERINTENDANT : You’re a bloody idiot, Lestrade! Now go and fetch him in right now!
CHIEF SUPERINTENDANT : Do it.
LESTRADE: Are you proud of yourselves?
ANDERSON: Well, what if it’s not just this case? What if he’s done this to us every single time?
Shortly afterwards, John – standing in the centre of the living room at 221B – lowers his own phone from his ear and switches it off. He turns to Sherlock who is now sitting in his armchair.
Watson: So, still got some friends on the Force. It’s Lestrade. Says they’re all coming over here right now, queuing up to slap on the handcuffs: every single officer you ever made feel like a tit, which is a lot of people.
MRS HUDSON: Oh, sorry, am I interrupting?
MRS HUDSON: Some chap delivered a parcel. I forgot. Marked ‘Perishable’ – I had to sign for it.
MRS HUDSON: Funny name. German, like the fairytales.
Sherlock: Burnt to a crisp.
Watson: What does it mean?
VOICE: Police!
MRS HUDSON: I’ll go.
DONOVAN : Sherlock ...
LESTRADE : Evening, Mrs Hudson.
DONOVAN : We need to talk to you!
MRS HUDSON : Don’t barge in like that!
Watson: Have you got a warrant? Have you?
LESTRADE : Leave it, John.
MRS HUDSON : Really! Manners!
LESTRADE: Sherlock Holmes, I’m arresting you on suspicion of abduction and kidnapping.
Watson: He’s not resisting.
Sherlock: It’s all right, John.
Watson: He’s not resisting. No, it’s not all right. This is ridiculous.
LESTRADE : Get him downstairs now.
Watson: You know you don’t have to do ...
LESTRADE : Don’t try to interfere, or I shall arrest you too.
Watson: You done?
DONOVAN : Oh, I said it.
Watson: Mmm-hmm?
DONOVAN: First time we met.
Watson: Don’t bother.
DONOVAN: “Solving crimes won’t be enough. One day he’ll cross the line.” Now, ask yourself: what sort of man would kidnap those kids just so he can impress us all by finding them?
CHIEF SUPERINTENDANT: Donovan.
DONOVAN: Sir.
CHIEF SUPERINTENDANT: Got our man?
DONOVAN: Er, yes, sir.
CHIEF SUPERINTENDANT: Looked a bit of a weirdo, if you ask me.
CHIEF SUPERINTENDANT: Often are, these vigilante types.
CHIEF SUPERINTENDANT: What are you looking at?
A minute or two later, the Chief Superintendant walks out onto the street holding a handkerchief to his bleeding nose.
POLICE OFFICER: Are you all right, sir?
Sherlock: Joining me?
Watson: Yeah. Apparently it’s against the law to chin the Chief Superintendant.
Sherlock: Hmm. Bit awkward, this.
Watson: Huh. No-one to bail us.
Sherlock: I was thinking more about our imminent and daring escape.
RADIO DISPATCHER: All units to two-seven.
Watson: What?
RADIO DISPATCHER: All units to two ...
Sherlock: Ladies and gentlemen, will you all please get on your knees?
Sherlock: NOW would be good!
LESTRADE: Do as he says!
Watson: Just-just so you’re aware, the g*n is his idea. I’m just a ... you know ...
Sherlock: ... my hostage.
Watson: Hostage! Yes, that works – that works
Watson: So what now?
Sherlock: Doing what Moriarty wants – I’m becoming a fugitive. Run.
CHIEF SUPERINTENDANT: Get after him, Lestrade!
Sherlock: Take my hand.
Watson: Now people will definitely talk.
Watson: The g*n!
Sherlock: Leave it!
Watson: Sherlock, wait!
Watson: We’re going to need to coordinate.
Sherlock: Go to your right.
Watson: Huh?
Sherlock: Go to your right.
Sherlock: Everybody wants to believe it – that’s what makes it so clever.  A lie that’s preferable to the truth.  All my brilliant deductions were just a sham. No-one feels inadequate – Sherlock Holmes is just an ordinary man.
Watson: What about Mycroft? He could help us.
Sherlock: A big family reconciliation? Now’s not really the moment.
Watson: Sher... Sherlock.
Watson: We’re being followed. I knew we couldn’t outrun the police.
Sherlock: That’s not the police. It’s one of my new neighbours from Baker Street. Let’s see if he can give us some answers.
Watson: Where are we going?
Sherlock: We’re going to jump in front of that bus.
Watson: What?!
Sherlock: Tell me what you want from me.
Sherlock: Tell me.
ASSASSIN: He left it at your flat.
Sherlock: Who?
ASSASSIN: Moriarty.
Sherlock: What?
ASSASSIN: The computer keycode.
Sherlock: Of course. He’s selling it – the programme he used to break into the Tower. He planted it when he came around.
Sherlock: It’s a game-changer. It’s a key – it can break into any system and it’s sitting in our flat right now. That’s why he left that message telling everyone where to come. “Get Sherlock.” We need to get back into the flat and search.
Watson: CID’ll be camped out. Why plant it on you?
Sherlock: It’s another subtle way of smearing my name. Now I’m best pals with all those criminals.
Watson: Yeah, well, have you seen this?
Watson: A kiss and tell. Some bloke called Rich Brook.
Watson: Who is he?
Kitty Riley parks her car outside her home, gets out and locks the car before walking to the front door. Opening it, she walks along the hall to the door of her flat, then pauses and looks at the door nervously as she realises that it is slightly ajar. Hesitantly she pushes the door open and reaches for the light switch on the wall. The lights come on and she is greeted with the sight of Sherlock and John sitting side by side on her sofa, each of them drumming the fingers of their handcuffed hand on their respective knees.
Sherlock: Too late to go on the record?
Not long afterwards, Kitty is sitting in an armchair while the boys stand in the middle of the room. Sherlock is using a hairpin to pick the lock on his handcuff.
Sherlock: Congratulations. The truth about Sherlock Holmes.
Sherlock: The scoop that everybody wanted and you got it. Bravo
KITTY: I gave you your opportunity. I wanted to be on your side, remember? You turned me down, so ...
Sherlock: And then, behold, someone turns up and spills all the beans. How utterly convenient. Who is Brook?
Sherlock: Oh, come on, Kitty. No-one trusts the voice at the end of a telephone.
Sherlock: There are all those furtive little meetings in cafés; those sessions in the hotel room where he gabbled into your dictaphone. How do you know that you can trust him? A man turns up with the Holy Grail in his pockets.  What were his credentials?
JIM: Darling, they didn’t have any ground coffee so I just got normal ...
JIM : You said that they wouldn’t find me here. You said that I’d be safe here.
KITTY: You are safe, Richard. I’m a witness. He wouldn’t harm you in front of witnesses.
Watson: So that’s your source? Moriarty is Richard Brook?!
KITTY: Of course he’s Richard Brook. There is no Moriarty. There never has been.
Watson: What are you talking about?
KITTY: Look him up. Rich Brook – an actor Sherlock Holmes hired to be Moriarty.
JIM: Doctor Watson, I know you’re a good man.
JIM: Don’t ... don’t h... Don’t hurt me.
Watson: No, you are Moriarty!  He’s Moriarty!  We’ve met, remember? You were gonna blow me up!
JIM: I’m sorry. I’m sorry.  He paid me. I needed the work. I’m an actor. I was out of work. I’m sorry, okay?
Watson: Sherlock, you’d better ... explain ... because I am not getting this.
KITTY: Oh I’ll ... I’ll be doing the explaining – in print.  It’s all here – conclusive proof.
KITTY : You invented James Moriarty, your nemesis.
Watson: Invented him?
KITTY: Mmm-hmm. Invented all the crimes, actually – and to cap it all, you made up a master villain.
Watson: Oh, don’t be ridiculous!
KITTY: Ask him. He’s right here! Just ask him. Tell him, Richard.
Watson: Look, for God’s sake, this man was on trial!
KITTY: Yes ...  ... and you paid him; paid him to take the rap. Promised you’d rig the jury.
KITTY: Not exactly a West End role, but I’ll bet the money was good.
KITTY: But not so good he didn’t want to sell his story.
JIM: I am sorry. I am. I am sorry.
Watson: So-so this is the story that you’re gonna publish. The big conclusion of it all: Moriarty’s an actor?!
JIM: He knows I am. I have proof. I have proof. Show him, Kitty! Show him something!
Watson: Yeah, show me something.
JIM : I’m on TV. I’m on kids’ TV. I’m The Storyteller.
JIM: I’m ... I’m The Storyteller. It’s on DVD.
JIM: Just tell him. It’s all coming out now. It’s all over.  Just tell them. Just tell them. Tell him!
JIM: It’s all over now ... NO!
JIM: Don’t you touch me! Don’t you lay a finger on me!
Sherlock: Stop it. Stop it NOW!
JIM: Don’t hurt me!
Watson: Don’t let him get away!
KITTY: Leave him alone!
Sherlock: No, no, no. He’ll have back-up.
KITTY: D’you know what, Sherlock Holmes? I look at you now and I can read you.
KITTY: And you ... repel ... me.
Watson: Can he do that? Completely change his identity; make you the criminal?
Sherlock: He’s got my whole life story. That’s what you do when you sell a big lie; you wrap it up in the truth to make it more palatable.
Watson: Your word against his.
Sherlock: He’s been sowing doubt into people’s minds for the last twenty-four hours. There’s only one thing he needs to do to complete his game, and that’s to ...
Watson: Sherlock?
Sherlock: Something I need to do.
Watson: What? Can I help?
Sherlock: No – on my own.
BART’S. Molly comes out of a small side room in a lab, switches off the lights and walks across the darkened lab, sighing tiredly. As she reaches the door to the corridor, Sherlock is standing in the darkness behind her with his face turned away from her. She doesn’t see him and reaches for the door handle.
Sherlock: You’re wrong, you know.
Sherlock: You do count. You’ve always counted and I’ve always trusted you.
Sherlock: But you were right. I’m not okay.
MOLLY: Tell me what’s wrong.
Sherlock: Molly, I think I’m going to die.
MOLLY: What do you need?
Sherlock: If I wasn’t everything that you think I am – everything that I think I am – would you still want to help me?
MOLLY: What do you need?
Sherlock: You.
THE DIOGENES CLUB. Mycroft walks across one of the common rooms, where an old man is fast asleep in an armchair, and goes into the smaller private room, reaching for the door handle to close it, but he stops as he realises that John is sitting in one of the armchairs with his back to him. John is still looking through Kitty’s file.
Watson: She has really done her homework, Miss Riley – things that only someone close to Sherlock could know.
MYCROFT : Ah.
Watson: Have you seen your brother’s address book lately? Two names: yours and mine, and Moriarty didn’t get this stuff from me.
MYCROFT: John ...
Watson: So how does it work, then, your relationship? D’you go out for a coffee now and then, eh, you and Jim?
Watson: Your own brother, and you blabbed about his entire life to this maniac.
MYCROFT: I never inten... I never dreamt ...
Watson: So this ...th-th-this ...  ... is what you were trying to tell me, isn’t it: “Watch his back, ’cause I’ve made a mistake.”
Watson: How did you meet him?
MYCROFT: People like him: we know about them; we watch them. But James Moriarty ... the most dangerous criminal mind the world has ever seen, and in his pocket the ultimate w*apon: a keycode. A few lines of computer code that could unlock any door.
Watson: And you abducted him to try and find the keycode?
MYCROFT: Interrogated him for weeks.
Watson: And?
MYCROFT: He wouldn’t play along.
MYCROFT: He just sat there, staring into the darkness.
MYCROFT: The only thing that made him open up ...
MYCROFT: I could get him to talk ...
MYCROFT: ... just a little, but ...
Watson: ... in return you had to offer him Sherlock’s life story. So one big lie – Sherlock’s a fraud – but people will swallow it because the rest of it’s true.
Watson: Moriarty wanted Sherlock destroyed, right? And you have given him the perfect amm*nit*on.
MYCROFT: John ...
MYCROFT : I’m sorry.
Watson: Oh, please ...
MYCROFT: Tell him, would you?
BART’S LAB. The lights are now on. Sherlock sits alone on the floor with his back against the bench. He is bouncing a small rubber ball off the floor and cupboard in front of him and catching it before repeating the movement constantly. John comes in.
Watson: Got your message.
Sherlock: The computer code is key to this. If we find it, we can use it – b*at Moriarty at his own game.
Watson: What d’you mean, “use it”?
Sherlock: He used it to create a false identity, so we can use it to break into the records and destroy Richard Brook.
Watson: And bring back Jim Moriarty again.
Sherlock: Somewhere in 221B, somewhere – on the day of the verdict – he left it hidden.
Watson: Uh-huh.
Watson: What did he touch?
Sherlock: An apple. Nothing else.
Watson: Did he write anything down?
Sherlock: No.
(John hisses in a breath and looks away, racking his brains and again unconsciously mimicking his friend by drumming his own fingers on the bench. After a moment, he turns and walks across the lab, bl*wing the breath out again. Sherlock lifts the fingers of his right hand, hesitates for a moment, then begins to drum them again but now he’s b*ating out a specific rhythm as, in his mind, binary code begins to stream out from his fingers. He lifts his head as John sighs heavily, unaware of Sherlock’s sharpened expression. Straightening up, Sherlock turns his back to John, takes his phone out of his pocket and begins to type a text message:
Come and play.
Bart’s Hospital rooftop.
SH
He pauses for a moment, then adds:
PS. Got something
of yours you might
want back.
Sending the message, he tucks his phone away into his jacket and then turns back towards the bench, his eyes full of thought.)
Some hours later, dawn is breaking. Sherlock is still in the same place, although he’s now sitting down with his feet up on the bench. He is rapidly rolling the rubber ball from side to side across the bench, his fingers flickering rapidly over the top of the ball. John has sat on a stool at a nearby bench and has his head down on his folded arms, asleep. His phone rings. Lifting his head tiredly, he groans and answers the phone.
Watson: Yeah, speaking.
Watson: Er, what?
Watson: What happened? Is she okay?  Oh my God. Right, yes, I’m coming.
Sherlock: What is it?
Watson: Paramedics. Mrs Hudson – she’s been sh*t.
Sherlock: What? How?
Watson: Well, probably one of the K*llers you managed to attract ... Jesus. Jesus. She’s dying, Sherlock. Let’s go.
Sherlock: You go. I’m busy.
Watson: Busy?
Sherlock: Thinking. I need to think.
Watson: You need to ...? Doesn’t she mean anything to you? You once half k*lled a man because he laid a finger on her.
Sherlock: She’s my landlady.
Watson: She’s dying ...
Watson: You machine.
Watson: Sod this. Sod this.  You stay here if you want, on your own.
Sherlock: Alone is what I have. Alone protects me.
Watson: No. Friends protect people.
(He storms out of the room. Sherlock lifts his gaze towards the door. A moment later his phone trills a text alert. He reaches into his pocket and looks at the message:
I’m waiting...
JM
Taking his feet off the bench and standing up, he walks across the lab buttoning his jacket. He picks up his coat, opens the door and leaves the room.)
On the roof of the hospital, daylight has come. Jim Moriarty – now back in a typical smart suit and overcoat and with his hair slicked back – calmly sits on the raised ledge at the edge of the building with his phone in his hand as The Bee Gees’ “Stayin’ Alive” plays from it. He doesn’t look at Sherlock as he comes onto the roof and walks towards him.
JIM: Ah. Here we are at last – you and me, Sherlock, and our problem – the final problem.
JIM: Stayin’ alive! It’s so boring, isn’t it?
JIM: It’s just ...  ... staying.
JIM: All my life I’ve been searching for distractions. You were the best distraction and now I don’t even have you. Because I’ve beaten you.
JIM: And you know what? In the end it was easy.
JIM : It was easy. Now I’ve got to go back to playing with the ordinary people. And it turns out you’re ordinary just like all of them.
JIM: Ah well.
JIM: Did you almost start to wonder if I was real? Did I nearly get you?
Sherlock: Richard Brook.
JIM: Nobody seems to get the joke, but you do.
Sherlock: Of course.
JIM: Attaboy.
Sherlock: Rich Brook in German is Reichen Bach – the case that made my name.
JIM : Just tryin’ to have some fun.
JIM: Good. You got that too.
Sherlock: Beats like digits.
Sherlock: Every b*at is a one; every rest is a zero. Binary code. That’s why all those assassins tried to save my life. It was hidden on me; hidden inside my head – a few simple lines of computer code that can break into any system.
JIM: I told all my clients: last one to Sherlock is a sissy.
Sherlock: Yes, but now that it’s up here, I can use it to alter all the records. I can k*ll Rich Brook and bring back Jim Moriarty.
JIM: No, no, no, no, no, this is too easy.
JIM: This is too easy.
JIM: There is no key, DOOFUS!
JIM: Those digits are meaningless. They’re utterly meaningless.
JIM: You don’t really think a couple of lines of computer code are gonna crash the world around our ears? I’m disappointed.
JIM: I’m disappointed in you, ordinary Sherlock.
Sherlock: But the rhythm ...
JIM: “Partita number one.” Thank you, Johann Sebastian Bach.
Sherlock: But then how did ...
JIM : Then how did I break into the Bank, to the Tower, to the Prison?
JIM: Daylight robbery. All it takes is some willing participants.
JIM: I knew you’d fall for it. That’s your weakness – you always want everything to be clever. Now, shall we finish the game? One final act. Glad you chose a tall building – nice way to do it.
Sherlock: Do it? Do – do what?
Sherlock: Yes, of course. My su1c1de.
JIM: “Genius detective proved to be a fraud.” I read it in the paper, so it must be true. I love newspapers. Fairytales.
JIM: And pretty Grimm ones too.
221B. A taxi pulls up outside and John jumps out and hurries towards the door, scrabbling for his keys. As he hurries inside, the man with the stepladder is standing at the top of it just in front of the stairs and is drilling a hole into the wall. Mrs Hudson is standing nearby watching him. As John runs towards her, she jolts in startlement, having not heard his approach over the sound of the drill.
MRS HUDSON: Oh, God, John! You made me jump!
Watson: But ...
MRS HUDSON: Is everything okay now with the police? Has, um, Sherlock sorted it all out?
Watson: Oh my God.
Watson: Taxi!
Watson: Taxi!
Watson: No, no, no, no, police! ... Sort of.
MAN : Oh, thanks, mate – thanks a lot
BART’S ROOFTOP. The two men have turned towards each other at the edge of the roof.
Sherlock: I can still prove that you created an entirely false identity.
JIM : Oh, just k*ll yourself. It’s a lot less effort.
JIM: Go on. For me.
JIM: Pleeeeeease?
Sherlock: You’re insane.
JIM: You’re just getting that now?
JIM: Okay, let me give you a little extra incentive.
JIM: Your friends will die if you don’t.
Sherlock: John.
JIM: Not just John.  Everyone.
Sherlock: Mrs Hudson.
JIM : Everyone.
Sherlock: Lestrade.
JIM: Three b*ll*ts; three g*n; three victims. There’s no stopping them now.
JIM: Unless my people see you jump.
JIM: You can have me arrested; you can t*rture me; you can do anything you like with me; but nothing’s gonna prevent them from pulling the trigger. Your only three friends in the world will die ... unless ...
Sherlock: ... unless I k*ll myself – complete your story.
JIM: You’ve gotta admit that’s sexier.
Sherlock: And I die in disgrace.
JIM: Of course. That’s the point of this.
JIM: Oh, you’ve got an audience now. Off you pop.
JIM: Go on.
JIM: I told you how this ends.
JIM : Your death is the only thing that’s gonna call off the K*llers. I’m certainly not gonna do it.
Sherlock: Would you give me ... one moment, please; one moment of privacy?
Sherlock: Please?
JIM: Of course.
JIM: What?
JIM : What is it?
JIM : What did I miss?
Sherlock: “You’re not going to do it.” So the K*llers can be called off, then – there’s a recall code or a word or a number.
Sherlock: I don’t have to die ...  ... if I’ve got you.
JIM: Oh!  You think you can make me stop the order? You think you can make me do that?
Sherlock: Yes. So do you.
JIM: Sherlock, your big brother and all the King’s horses couldn’t make me do a thing I didn’t want to.
Sherlock: Yes, but I’m not my brother, remember? I am you – prepared to do anything; prepared to burn; prepared to do what ordinary people won’t do. You want me to shake hands with you in hell? I shall not disappoint you.
JIM: Naah. You talk big. Naah. You’re ordinary. You’re ordinary – you’re on the side of the angels.
Sherlock: Oh, I may be on the side of the angels, but don’t think for one second that I am one of them.
JIM: No, you’re not.
JIM : I see. You’re not ordinary. No. You’re me.
JIM: You’re me! Thank you!
JIM: Sherlock Holmes.
JIM : Thank you. Bless you.
JIM: As long as I’m alive, you can save your friends; you’ve got a way out.
JIM: Well, good luck with that.
LESTRADE : Yes, sir, thank you. Bye.
Watson: Hello?
Sherlock: John.
Watson: Hey, Sherlock, you okay?
Sherlock: Turn around and walk back the way you came now.
Watson: No, I’m coming in.
Sherlock: Just do as I ask. Please.
Watson: Where?
Sherlock: Stop there.
Watson: Sherlock?
Sherlock: Okay, look up. I’m on the rooftop.
Watson: Oh God.
Sherlock: I ... I ... I can’t come down, so we’ll ... we’ll just have to do it like this.
Watson: What’s going on?
Sherlock: An apology. It’s all true.
Watson: Wh-what?
Sherlock: Everything they said about me. I invented Moriarty.
Watson: Why are you saying this?
Sherlock: I’m a fake.
Watson: Sherlock ...
Sherlock: The newspapers were right all along. I want you to tell Lestrade; I want you to tell Mrs Hudson, and Molly ... in fact, tell anyone who will listen to you that I created Moriarty for my own purposes.
Watson: Okay, shut up, Sherlock, shut up. The first time we met ... the first time we met, you knew all about my sister, right?
Sherlock: Nobody could be that clever.
Watson: You could.
Sherlock: I researched you. Before we met I discovered everything that I could to impress you.  It’s a trick. Just a magic trick.
Watson: No. All right, stop it now.
Sherlock: No, stay exactly where you are. Don’t move.
Watson: All right.
Sherlock: Keep your eyes fixed on me.  Please, will you do this for me?
Watson: Do what?
Sherlock: This phone call – it’s, er ... it’s my note. It’s what people do, don’t they – leave a note?
Watson: Leave a note when?
Sherlock: Goodbye, John.
Watson: No. Don’t.
Watson: No. SHERLOCK!
Watson: Sher...
Watson: Sherlock, Sherlock ...
Watson: I’m a doctor, let me come through. Let me come through, please.
Watson: No, he’s my friend. He’s my friend. Please.
Watson: Please, let me just ...
Watson: Nggh, Jesus, no.
Watson: God, no.
DIOGENES CLUB. Mycroft is holding a copy of “The Sun”. Its headline screams “su1c1de OF FAKE GENIUS” and the straplines state ”SUPER-SLEUTH IS d*ad” and ”Fraudulent detective takes his own life”. Folding the paper and putting it down on the table beside him, he stares blankly into the distance and then folds his hands in front of his face in the prayer position.
221B. John sits in his armchair, dressed but with his feet bare and tucked together in front of him. One hand is propping up his head and he gazes into the distance, lost and alone.
ELLA’S OFFICE. As the rain continues to pour down, John gazes blankly at his therapist.
ELLA: There’s stuff that you wanted to say ...
ELLA: ... but didn’t say it.
Watson: Yeah.
ELLA: Say it now.
Watson: No.  Sorry. I can’t.
TAXI. John and Mrs Hudson are sitting in the back of a cab as it drives into a graveyard. Mrs H is holding a bunch of flowers. Not long afterwards, they stand beside each other in front of a black marble headstone. The flowers are now resting at the base of the headstone.
MRS HUDSON: There’s all the stuff, all the science equipment. I left it all in boxes. I don’t know what needs doing. I thought I’d take it to a school.
MRS HUDSON: Would you ...?
Watson: I can’t go back to the flat again – not at the moment.
Watson: I’m angry.
MRS HUDSON: It’s okay, John. There’s nothing unusual in that. That’s the way he made everyone feel.
MRS HUDSON: All the marks on my table; and the noise – f*ring g*n at half past one in the morning!
Watson: Yeah.
MRS HUDSON: Bloody specimens in my fridge. Imagine – keeping bodies where there’s food!
Watson: Yes.
MRS HUDSON: And the fighting! Drove me up the wall with all his carryings-on!
Watson: Yeah, listen: I-I’m not actually that angry, okay?
MRS HUDSON: Okay.
MRS HUDSON: I’ll leave you alone to, erm ...  ... you know.
Watson: Um ... mmm.  You ... you told me once that you weren’t a hero. Umm ... there were times I didn’t even think you were human, but let me tell you this: you were the best man, and the most human ... human being that I’ve ever known and no-one will ever convince me that you told me a lie, and so ... There.
Watson: I was so alone, and I owe you so much.
Watson: Okay.
Watson: No, please, there’s just one more thing, mate, one more thing: one more miracle, Sherlock, for me. Don’t ... be ...  ... d*ad. Would you do ...? Just for me, just stop it.  Stop this.
Sherlock: It’s a trick. Just a magic trick.
Watson: No. All right, stop it now.
Sherlock: No, stay exactly where you are.
Sherlock: Don’t move.
Watson: All right.
Sherlock: Keep your eyes fixed on me. Please, will you do this for me?
Watson: Do what?
Sherlock: This phone call – it’s ... it’s my note.
Sherlock: It’s what people do, don’t they? Leave a note?
Watson: Leave a note when?
Sherlock: Goodbye, John.
Watson: No. Don’t.
(The men drag Jim’s body into a service elevator somewhere in the hospital, and lay it on the floor. As Sherlock continues to look down towards John, one of the men opens a case. Inside is a latex mask which is a perfect replica of Sherlock’s face. The other man closes the lift doors, while the first man takes a small bottle from the case and, using tweezers, carefully extracts a blue soft contact lens.
On the roof, Sherlock drops his phone behind him and stares intensely ahead of himself as John screams, “Sherlock!” up at him.
In the elevator, Jim’s d*ad open eyes are now blue instead of brown. The man takes the mask out of the case and lays it over Jim’s face, then picks up a scalpel and reaches forward to start lifting the closed eyes on the mask. The second man starts to apply a dark curly wig to Jim’s slicked-down hair.
On the roof, Sherlock spreads his arms and falls forward. John stares in horror, and a man on a pushbike slams into him from behind, sending him crashing to the ground. Sherlock plummets towards the ground, but now it’s clear that he is attached to a bungee cord. While John lies on the ground still trying to catch his breath, Molly Hooper watches from a window of Bart’s as Sherlock plunges past, the bungee cord trailing behind him. He heads towards the pavement but the cord stops his fall as it reaches its full extension. Sherlock’s breath whooshes out of him ... then the elastic begins to contract and Sherlock is yanked skywards. Molly gasps as he sh**t back into view, flailing to change his direction and, before she can react, he wraps his arms around his head and kicks his way through the window in front of her. She cringes back from the breaking glass and Sherlock lands on his feet and unclips the bungee cord from his waist. It is whipped out of the window and disappears from view and Sherlock straightens his coat, ruffles his hands through his hair and marches over to Molly, taking her head in his hands and kissing her deeply for a couple of seconds. She reaches up to hold his head but he pulls away, giving her a long last look and then leaving the room. She watches him go with a girly smile on her face.
Downstairs, the two men are dragging Jim’s body – now perfectly disguised as Sherlock’s – out onto the street, and nearby a man wearing a fur-lined hooded jacket is approaching John. The men put the body into position on the pavement and one of them squirts fake blood onto the paving stones around the head. Other people – various fake medical staff and passers-by – are running into position around the body. The jacket-wearing man walks over to John as more people run towards the scene. John gets up onto his knees, seeing the passers-by running over to the body and pointing upwards as they appear to discuss what they just saw. John gets to his feet, and the man steps into his way.)
DERREN: John.
(It’s none other than Derren Brown, the famous illusionist and hypnotist!
He puts his hand onto John’s shoulder.)
DERREN: John. Look at me. Look at me.
DERREN: And sleep!
DERREN: Right the way down, right the way deep, right the way sound asleep. That’s right. That’s good – keeping my voice just there in the centre of your head and floating all the way around you.
DERREN: And you will awaken in three, two, one ...
DERREN: ... zero.
(Flipping his hood up, he walks away. John rolls over onto his side, grimacing with pain. The crowd continues to gather around the body and John – unaware of the passage of time since he first was knocked over by the bike – clambers to his feet and stumbles towards the pavement.
Inside the hospital, Sherlock walks towards a set of double doors.
John hurries over to the crowd and tries to push his way through them, while they do all they can to hold him back.)
Watson: Let me come through, please. He’s my friend.
(Sherlock half-turns as he walks, taking one last look behind him.
Outside, John’s knees give out and he half-collapses, supported by some of the bystanders. Sherlock’s wrist falls limply out of John’s grasp. Paramedics arrive with a stretcher and load the body onto it as John watches in anguish. The stretcher is wheeled away; and Sherlock pushes his way through the doors and walks around the corner, disappearing from view.)
LESTRADE : Bollocks!
ANDERSON: No-no-no-no! It’s obvious! That’s how he did it! It’s obvious!
LESTRADE: Derren Brown?! Let it go. Sherlock’s d*ad.
ANDERSON: Is he?
LESTRADE: There was a body. It was him. It was definitely him. Molly Hooper laid him out.
ANDERSON: No, she’s lying. It was Jim Moriarty’s body with a mask on!
LESTRADE: A mask?!
LESTRADE: A bungee rope, a mask, Derren Brown. Two years, and the theories keep getting more stupid. How many more’ve you got for me today?
ANDERSON: Well, you know the paving slabs in that whole area – even the exact ones that he landed on – you know they were all ...
LESTRADE : Guilt.  That’s all this is. You pushed us all into thinking that Sherlock was a fraud, you and Donovan.
LESTRADE: You did this, and it k*lled him, and he’s staying d*ad. Do you honestly believe that if you have enough stupid theories, it’s gonna change what really happened?
ANDERSON: I believe in Sherlock Holmes.
LESTRADE: Yeah, well that won’t bring him back.
REPORTER 1 : ... that after extensive police investigations, Richard Brook did indeed prove to be the creation of James Moriarty ...
REPORTER 2 : ... amidst unprecedented scenes, there was uproar in court as Sherlock Holmes was vindicated and cleared of all suspicion ...
REPORTER 3: ... but sadly, all this comes too late for the detective who became something of a celebrity two years ago ...
REPORTER 1: ... Questions are now being asked as to why police let matters get so far.
REPORTER 2: Sherlock Holmes fell to his death from the top of London’s Bart’s Hospital. Although he left no note, friends say it’s unlikely he was able to cope with ...
LESTRADE: Well then.  Absent friends. Sherlock.
ANDERSON : Sherlock.
LESTRADE: And may God rest his soul.
At Sherlock’s grave, John gazes down at the headstone, his eyes haunted with memories and loss. Since we last saw him he has grown a moustache. As he continues to look at the grave, which has several bunches of flowers – some of them fading with age – at the base of the headstone, a woman steps to John’s side and takes his hand. He clasps it tightly.
SERBIA. NIGHT TIME. A man with long straggly hair is running through a forest. Above him, a helicopter is circling around, shining a searchlight into the trees while the crew watch their infrared camera, radioing instructions in Serbian to the ground crew. There is much shouting and running which your transcriber can’t be bothered to relate second by second but eventually the soldiers surround the man and aim their r*fles at him. He slumps to the ground, exhausted.
Some time later, in what may be a bunker or an interrogation centre, a soldier is guarding the entrance to a room. He has earphones in his ears playing loud music. Behind the closed door, the prisoner cries out as he is struck for the umpteenth time. Hearing the noise, the soldier takes one of his ear buds out just as the prisoner is struck again and groans. The soldier puts his ear bud back in and turns away. Inside the room, the torturer shouts repeatedly at the prisoner, who is naked from the waist up and whose arms are chained to opposite walls of the small room, forcing him to stay upright. The man is slumped forward as far as he can, exhausted by the repeated bl*ws. In a dark corner of the room another soldier, well wrapped against the cold and with a furry hat on his head, sits with his feet up on a small table and watches as the torturer paces across the room. He speaks in Serbian at all times.
TORTURER : You broke in here for a reason.
TORTURER : Just tell us why and you can sleep. Remember sleep?
TORTURER : What?
SOLDIER : Well? What did he say?
TORTURER : He said that I used to work in the navy, where I had an unhappy love affair.
SOLDIER : What?
TORTURER : ... that the electricity isn’t working in my bathroom; and that my wife is sleeping with our next door neighbour!
TORTURER : The coffin maker!
TORTURER : And?
TORTURER : If I go home now, I’ll catch them at it! I knew it! I knew there was something going on!
SOLDIER : So, my friend. Now it’s just you and me.
SOLDIER : You have no idea the trouble it took to find you.
MYCROFT: Now listen to me. There’s an underground t*rror1st network active in London and a massive att*ck is imminent. Sorry, but the holiday is over, brother dear.
MYCROFT: Back to Baker Street, Sherlock Holmes.
OPENING CREDITS
In an Underground station, the doors of a Tube train close and the train moves off. John sits inside.
Above ground, a black car with tinted rear windows heads through the streets.
The two journeys continue, while Mycroft sits in a dark-walled windowless office  looking through paperwork. The car pulls up outside the Diogenes Club, which presumably contains this office.
BAKER STREET. John walks across the road towards 221. Two young boys come around the corner, one of them pushing a pushchair in front of him in which is a home-made Guy Fawkes ‘guy’ with an orange balloon for a head, with a face drawn on with marker pen. One of them calls out the traditional plea to a passer-by.
BOY: Penny for the guy?
BOY: Oi, mate! Penny for the guy?
SECOND BOY: Penny for the guy, mate?
FIRST BOY: Penny for the guy?
Watson: That was the most ridiculous thing I’ve ever done.
Sherlock: And you inv*de Afghanistan!
In Mycroft’s office, someone is reading the front page headline of a newspaper which reads, “SKELETON MYSTERY”. The strapline, which we can only see the beginning of, says, “Remains found in the wall of a ...” The reader folds the newspaper down to reveal Mycroft sitting behind his desk a short distance away, reading a file.
MYCROFT: You have been busy, haven’t you?
MYCROFT: Quite the busy little bee.
Sherlock: Moriarty’s network – took me two years to dismantle it.
MYCROFT: And you’re confident you have?
Sherlock: The Serbian side was the last piece of the puzzle.
MYCROFT: Yes. You got yourself in deep there ...  ... with Baron Maupertuis. Quite a scheme.
Sherlock: Colossal.
MYCROFT : Anyway, you’re safe now.
Sherlock: Hmm.
MYCROFT: A small ‘thank you’ wouldn’t go amiss.
Sherlock: What for?
MYCROFT: For wading in.
MYCROFT: In case you’d forgotten, fieldwork is not my natural milieu.
Sherlock: “Wading in”? You sat there and watched me being beaten to a pulp.
MYCROFT : I got you out.
Sherlock: No – I got me out. Why didn’t you intervene sooner?
MYCROFT: Well, I couldn’t risk giving myself away, could I? It would have ruined everything.
Sherlock: You were enjoying it.
MYCROFT: Nonsense.
Sherlock: Definitely enjoying it.
MYCROFT : Listen: do you have any idea what it was like, Sherlock, going ‘under cover’, smuggling my way into their ranks like that? The noise; the people?
Sherlock: I didn’t know you spoke Serbian.
MYCROFT: I didn’t, but the language has a Slavic root, frequent Turkish and German loan words.  Took me a couple of hours.
Sherlock: Hmm – you’re slipping.
MYCROFT : Middle age, brother mine. Comes to us all.
221A BAKER STREET. John is sitting at Mrs Hudson’s kitchen table. She loudly slams down a small tray containing a cup and saucer and a jug of milk, then goes across the room to pick up a plate of biscuits, which she equally loudly slams down onto the table. John watches her silently while she picks up a sugar bowl and thumps that onto the table. She hesitates, then points at the sugar bowl.
MRS HUDSON: Oh no – you don’t take it, do you?
Watson: No.
MRS HUDSON: You forget a little thing like that.
Watson: Yes.
MRS HUDSON : You forget lots of little things, it seems.
Watson: Uh-huh.
MRS HUDSON: Not sure about that.
MRS HUDSON: Ages you.
Watson: Just trying it out.
MRS HUDSON: Well, it ages you.
Watson: Look ...
MRS HUDSON: I’m not your mother. I’ve no right to expect it ...
Watson: No ...
MRS HUDSON: ... but just one phone call, John.
MRS HUDSON: Just one phone call would have done.
Watson: I know.
MRS HUDSON: After all we went through.
Watson: Yes. I am sorry.
MRS HUDSON : Look, I understand how difficult it was for you after ... after ...
Watson: I just let it slide, Mrs Hudson. I let it all slide. And it just got harder and harder to pick up the phone somehow.
Watson: D’you know what I mean?
MYCROFT’S OFFICE. Sherlock’s hair is now dry and curly, and he is on his feet and almost dressed. He tucks his shirt into his trousers while he looks at himself in a large mirror on the wall. Mycroft and not-Anthea stand nearby.
MYCROFT: I need you to give this matter your full attention, Sherlock. Is that quite clear?
Sherlock: What do you think of this shirt?
MYCROFT : Sherlock!
Sherlock: I will find your underground terror cell, Mycroft.
Sherlock: Just put me back in London. I need to get to know the place again, breathe it in – feel every quiver of its b*ating heart.
NOT-ANTHEA: One of our men d*ed getting this information. All the chatter, all the traffic, concurs there’s going to be a terror strike on London – a big one.
Sherlock: And what about John Watson?
MYCROFT: John?
Sherlock: Mmm. Have you seen him?
MYCROFT: Oh, yes – we meet up every Friday for fish and chips
MYCROFT: I’ve kept a weather eye on him, of course.
MYCROFT: You haven’t been in touch at all, to prepare him?
Sherlock: No.
Sherlock: Well, we’ll have to get rid of that.
MYCROFT: “We”?
Sherlock: He looks ancient. I can’t be seen to be wandering around with an old man.
221B. John has gone upstairs and opens the door to the living room. He stands in the doorway, looking into the room. It’s quite dark because the curtains are closed, but lots of dust is floating around, illuminated by the few shafts of light coming into the room. John continues to stand still, looking towards Sherlock’s chair by the fireside. Mrs Hudson comes in and switches the lights on.
MRS HUDSON: I couldn’t face letting it out.
MRS HUDSON: He never liked me dusting.
Watson: No, I know.
MRS HUDSON: So, why now? What changed your mind?
Watson: Well, I’ve got some news.
MRS HUDSON: Oh, God. Is it serious?
Watson: What? No – no, I’m not ill. I’ve, er, well, I’m ... moving on.
MRS HUDSON : You’re emigrating.
Watson: Nope. Er, no – I’ve, er ... I’ve met someone.
MRS HUDSON: Oh, lovely!
Watson: Yeah. We’re getting married ... well, I’m gonna ask, anyway.
MRS HUDSON : So soon after Sherlock?
Watson: Well, yes.
MRS HUDSON: What’s his name?
Watson: It’s a woman.
MRS HUDSON: A woman?!
Watson: Yes, of course it’s a woman.
MRS HUDSON: You really have moved on, haven’t you?
Watson: Mrs Hudson! How many times ...? Sherlock was not my boyfriend.
MRS HUDSON : Live and let live – that’s my motto.
Watson: Listen to me: I am not gay!
MYCROFT’S OFFICE.
Sherlock: I think I’ll surprise John. He’ll be delighted!
MYCROFT : You think so?
Sherlock: Hmm. I’ll pop into Baker Street. Who knows – jump out of a cake.
MYCROFT : Baker Street? He isn’t there any more.
MYCROFT: Why would he be? It’s been two years. He’s got on with his life.
Sherlock: What life? I’ve been away.
Sherlock: Where’s he going to be tonight?
MYCROFT: How would I know?
Sherlock: You always know.
MYCROFT: He has a dinner reservation in the Marylebone Road. Nice little spot. They have a few bottles of the 2000 Saint-Emilion ... though I prefer the 2001.
Sherlock: I think maybe I’ll just drop by.
MYCROFT: You know, it is just possible that you won’t be welcome.
Sherlock: No it isn’t. Now, where is it?
MYCROFT: Where’s what?
Sherlock: You know what.
ANTHEA: Welcome back, Mr Holmes.
Sherlock: Thank you ...
Sherlock: ... blud.
for an alternative possibility.]
Later, Sherlock stands on a rooftop or a balcony of a tall building and gazes over his favourite city.
EVENING. THE LANDMARK HOTEL, MARYLEBONE ROAD. Sherlock approaches the door to the restaurant, handing his Belstaff to a member of staff. Waiters open the doors for him and he walks in. The maître d’ steps forward.
MAITRE D’: Sir, may I help you?
(Having only glanced briefly at him, Sherlock has gone into full-bl*wn deduction mode, seeming to hear a woman crying out in pain:
Expectant Father
The man’s phone beeps a text alert.)
Sherlock: Your wife just texted you. Possibly her contractions have started.
(The man fishes his phone out of his pocket, looks at the screen and hurries away. Sherlock smiles smugly to himself.
Nearby, John is sitting alone at a table, checking the inside pocket of his jacket before taking a drink from a glass of water. Sherlock looks across the room at him, then hesitates. A waitress picks up some menus from the bar and walks across in front of him.)
WAITRESS: ’Scuse me, sir.
Sherlock: Sorry! I’m so, so sorry!
Sherlock: Please, let me just go to the kitchen and, er, dry that off for you.
Sherlock: Finished with that, sir? Allow me to take it for you.
Sherlock: Madam, can I suggest you look at this menu? It’s, er, completely identical.
Sherlock: Can I ’elp you with anything, sir?
Watson: Hi, yeah. I’m looking for a bottle of champagne – a good one.
Sherlock: Mmm! Well, these are all excellent vintages.
Watson: Er, it’s not really my area. What do you suggest?
Sherlock: Well, you cannot possibly go wrong, but, erm, if you’d like my personal recommendation ...
Watson: Mm-hmm.
Sherlock:... this last one on the list is a favourite of mine.
Sherlock:It is – you might, in fact, say – like a face from ze past.
Watson: Great. I’ll have that one, please.
Sherlock: It is familiar, but, er, with the quality of surprise!
Watson: Well, er, surprise me.
Sherlock: Certainly endeavouring to, sir.
MARY: Sorry that took so long.
MARY: You okay?
Watson: Yeah, yeah. Me? Fine. I am fine.
MARY: Now then, what did you want to ask me?
Watson: More wine?
MARY: No, I’m good with water, thanks.
Watson: Right.
MARY: So ...
Watson: Er, so ... Mary. Listen, erm ... I know it hasn’t been long ... I mean, I know we haven’t known each other for a long time ...
MARY : Go on.
Watson: Yes, I will. As you know, these last couple of years haven’t been easy for me; and meeting you ...
Watson: Yeah, meeting you has been the best thing that could have possibly happened.
MARY: I agree.
Watson: What?
MARY : I agree I’m the best thing that could have happened to you.
MARY: Sorry.
Watson: Well, no. That’s, um ...
Watson: So ... if you’ll have me, Mary, could you see your way, um ...
Watson: ... if you could see your way to ...
Sherlock: Sir, I think you’ll find this vintage exceptionally to your liking.
Sherlock: It has all the qualities of the old, with some of the colour of the new.
Watson: No, sorry, not now, please.
Sherlock: Like a gaze from a crowd of strangers ...
Sherlock: ... suddenly one is aware of staring into ze face of an old friend.
Watson: No, look, seriously ...  ... could you just ...
Sherlock: Interesting thing, a tuxedo. Lends distinction to friends, and anonymity to waiters.
MARY : John?
MARY : John, what is it? What?
Sherlock: Well, short version ...
Sherlock: ... Not d*ad.
Sherlock: Bit mean, springing it on you like that, I know. Could have given you a heart att*ck, probably still will. But in my defence, it was very funny.
Sherlock: Okay, it’s not a great defence.
MARY: Oh no! You’re ...
Sherlock: Oh yes.
MARY : Oh, my God.
Sherlock: Not quite.
MARY: You d*ed. You jumped off a roof.
Sherlock: No.
MARY : You’re d*ad!
Sherlock: No. I’m quite sure. I checked. Excuse me.
Sherlock: Does, er, does yours rub off, too?
MARY: Oh my God, oh my God. Do you have any idea what you’ve done to him?
Sherlock: Okay, John, I’m suddenly realising I probably owe you some sort of an apology.
MARY: All right, just ... John? Just keep ...
Watson: Two years.
Watson: Two years.
Watson: I thought ...
Watson: I thought ... you were d*ad.  Hmm?
Watson: Now, you let me grieve, hmm? How could you do that?
Watson: How?
Sherlock: Wait – before you do anything that you might regret ...
Sherlock: ... um, one question. Just let me ask one question. Um ...
Sherlock: Are you really gonna keep that?!
LATER. The three of them have presumably been thrown out of the restaurant and have relocated to a café. Sherlock sits on one side of a table wearing his coat, his fingers steepled in front of him. John and Mary sit side by side opposite him, their arms folded.
Sherlock: I calculated that there were thirteen possibilities once I’d invited Moriarty onto the roof.
Sherlock: I wanted to avoid dying if at all possible.
Sherlock: The first scenario involved hurling myself into a parked hospital van filled with washing bags. Impossible. The angle was too steep. Secondly, a system of Japanese wrestling ...
Watson: You know, for a genius you can be remarkably thick.
Sherlock: What?
Watson: I don’t care how you faked it, Sherlock. I wanna know why.
Sherlock: Why? Because Moriarty had to be stopped.
Sherlock: Oh. ‘Why’ as in ...
Sherlock: I see. Yes. ‘Why?’ That’s a little more difficult to explain.
Watson: I’ve got all night.
Sherlock: Actually, um, that was mostly Mycroft’s idea.
Watson: Oh, so it’s your brother’s plan?
MARY : Oh, he would have needed a confidant ...
Sherlock: Mm-hm.
MARY: Sorry.
Watson: But he was the only one? The only one who knew?
Sherlock: Couple of others.
Sherlock: It was a very elaborate plan – it had to be. The next of the thirteen possibilities ...
Watson: Who else?
Watson: Who else knew?
Watson: Who?
Sherlock: Molly.
Watson: Molly?
MARY : John.
Sherlock: Molly Hooper – and some of my homeless network, and that’s all.
Watson: Okay.  Okay. So just your brother, and Molly Hooper, and a hundred tramps.
Sherlock: No! Twenty-five at most.
LATER. The three of them have presumably been thrown out of the café and have relocated to a kebab shop. John and Mary stand leaning with their backs against the counter. John apparently managed more than just an attempted throttling, because Sherlock has taken his coat off and is holding a paper napkin to a cut on his lower lip. He looks at the blood on the napkin, wincing, then presses it to his lip again. He looks at John as he raises his head, avoiding Sherlock’s gaze.
Sherlock: Seriously, it’s not a joke?  You’re-you’re really keeping this?
Watson: Yeah.
Sherlock: You’re sure?
Watson: Mary likes it.
Sherlock: Mmmmmm, no she doesn’t.
Watson: She does.
Sherlock: She doesn’t.
Watson: Oh!  Brilliant.
MARY: I’m sorry. Oh, I’m sorry – I didn’t know how to tell you.
Watson: No, no, this is charming
Watson: I’ve really missed this
Watson: One Word, Sherlock. That is all I would have needed. One word to let me know that you were alive.
Sherlock: I’ve nearly been in contact so many times, but ...
Sherlock: ... I worried that, you know, you might say something indiscreet.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: Well, you know, let the cat out of the bag.
Watson: Oh, so this is my fault?!
MARY: Oh, God!
Watson: Why am I the only one who thinks that this is wrong – the only one reacting like a human being?!
Sherlock: Over-reacting.
Watson: “Over-reacting”?!
MARY: John!
Watson: “Over-reacting.” So you fake your own death ...
Sherlock: Shh!
Watson: ... and you waltz in ’ere large as bloody life ...
Sherlock: Shh!
Watson: ... but I’m not supposed to have a problem with that, no, because Sherlock Holmes thinks it’s a perfectly OKAY THING TO DO!
Sherlock: Shut up, John! I don’t want everyone knowing I’m still alive!
Watson: Oh, so it’s still a secret, is it?
Sherlock: Yes! It’s still a secret.
Sherlock: Promise you won’t tell anyone.
Watson: Swear to God!
Sherlock: London is in danger, John. There’s an imminent t*rror1st att*ck and I need your help.
Watson: My help?
Sherlock: You have missed this. Admit it. The thrill of the chase, the blood pumping through your veins, just the two of us against the rest of the world ...
LATER. The three of them have presumably been thrown out of the kebab shop. Sherlock stands just outside the door with his head tilted back a little. Blood is running from his nose.
Sherlock: I don’t understand.
Sherlock: I said I’m sorry. Isn’t that what you’re supposed to do?
MARY: Gosh. You don’t know anything about human nature, do you?
Sherlock: Mmm, nature? No. Human? ... No.
MARY: I’ll talk him round.
Sherlock: You will?
MARY : Oh yeah.
(Sherlock looks at her closely and goes into deduction mode. Many, many words appear in his mind, some of them repeated several times. They include, in no particular order:
only child linguist Clever part time nurse Shortsighted Guardian Bakes Own Bread Disillusioned Cat Lover Romantic Appendix Scar Lib Dem Secret Tattoo Size 12 Liar
She smiles at him, then looks round as John calls to her.)
Watson: Mary.
(She turns to give Sherlock a last smile, then walks over to John. They get into the taxi and drive away. Sherlock watches them go.
In the taxi John indignantly turns to Mary.)
Watson: Can you believe his nerve?
MARY: I like him.
Watson: What?
MARY : I like him.
(She turns away and looks out of the window. John narrows his eyes, looking completely bewildered.
Back at the kebab shop, Sherlock looks down thoughtfully, then turns and walks away.)
ST BARTHOLOMEW’S HOSPITAL. Molly Hooper walks into a locker room, takes out her keys and opens her locker. As the door swings open, the mirror on the inside reveals Sherlock standing behind her. She gasps and turns to look at him.
In an underground car park, Greg Lestrade walks across the area searching his pockets as he goes. Behind him, Sherlock walks past. Unaware of this, Greg continues rummaging in various pockets. Something metallic clinks noisily a little way away. Greg looks around but can see nothing and resumes his search until he finally finds what he was looking for. Tipping a cigarette out of the pack, he sticks it into his mouth, puts the rest of the pack back into his pocket and then flicks his lighter and raises it towards the end of the cigarette.
SHERLOCK’s VOICE : Those things’ll k*ll you.
LESTRADE: Ooh, you bastard!
Sherlock: It’s time to come back. You’ve been letting things slide, Graham.
LESTRADE: Greg!
Sherlock: Greg.
John and Mary are in bed. Mary is asleep, but John stares up at the ceiling, lost in thought.
221A BAKER STREET. Mrs Hudson is in the kitchen washing up a pan. The radio is on.
RADIO: ... with an anti-terrorism bill this important, the government feels duty-bound to push through the legislation with all due expe...
FLASHBACK to the end of “The Reichenbach Fall”. John gets out of the taxi and heads towards the hospital. Cut to partway through his phone conversation with Sherlock when John tries again to go towards the hospital.
Sherlock: No, stay exactly where you are.
Watson: Where are you?
Sherlock: Don’t move. Keep your eyes fixed on me.
JOHN’s VOICE : What-what’s happening? What’s going on?
Sherlock: Please, will you do this for me? Please.
Watson: Do what?
Sherlock: This phone call – it’s my note. That’s what people do, don’t they? Leave a note.
JOHN’s VOICE : Leave a note when?
Sherlock: Goodbye, John.
JOHN’s VOICE : No ...
Watson: Sherlock!
JIM: Oh-ho!
(He and Sherlock both laugh as if delighted that their plan has worked. They turn and look at each other, and their smiles slowly fade. Sherlock frowns a little, looking puzzled, but Jim waits patiently for him to catch up. After a moment they begin to lean towards each other. Their mouths are just about to touch when ...
ANDERSON : What?! Are you out of your mind?!
LAURA: I don’t see why not. It’s just as plausible as some of your theories.
ANDERSON: Look, if you’re not going to take it seriously, Laura, you can ...
LAURA : I do take it seriously.  I don’t think we should wear hats.
ANDERSON: I founded ‘The Empty Hearse’ so like-minded people could meet, discuss theories ...
ANDERSON: Sherlock’s still out there.
ANDERSON: I’m convinced of it.
LAURA: Oh my God.
LAURA: Oh. My. God!
Sitting up in bed, Mary is holding an iPad and reading aloud from one of John’s old blog entries.
MARY : “His movements were so silent. So furtive, he reminded me of a trained bloodhound picking out a scent.”
Watson: You what?
MARY: “I couldn’t help thinking what an amazing criminal he’d make if he turned his talents against the law.”
Watson: Don’t read that.
MARY : The famous blog, finally!
Watson: Come on – that’s ...
MARY: ... ancient history, yes, I know. But it’s not, though, is it, because he’s ...
MARY : What are you doing?!
Watson: Having a wash.
MARY : You’re shaving it off.
Watson: Well, you hate it.
MARY: Sherlock hates it.
Watson: Apparently everyone hates it.
MARY: Are you gonna see him again?
Watson: No – I’m going to work.
MARY: Oh. And after work, are you gonna see him again?
MARY: Cor, I dunno – six months of bristly kisses for me, and then His Nibs turns up ...
Watson: I don’t shave for Sherlock Holmes.
MARY: Oh! You should put that on a T-shirt!
Watson: Shut up.
MARY : Or what?
Watson: Or I’ll marry you.
Sherlock: London. It’s like a great cesspool into which all kinds of criminals, agents and drifters are irresistibly drained.
Sherlock: Sometimes it’s not a question of ‘Who?’; it’s a question of ‘Who Knows?’
Sherlock: If this man cancels his papers ...
Sherlock: ... I need to know.
(Keeping a wary eye on the man, the homeless woman sends her photos to Sherlock, and he pins one of them onto the wall.
Elsewhere, a woman with a dog on a lead walks through a street market.)
Sherlock: If this woman leaves London without putting her dog into kennels, I need to know.
Sherlock: There are certain people – they are markers. If they start to move, I’ll know something’s up – like rats deserting a sinking ship.
John, now moustache-free, approaches and goes into the surgery in which he works.
221B. LIVING ROOM.
MYCROFT: All very interesting, Sherlock, but the terror alert has been raised to Critical.
Sherlock: Boring. Your move.
MYCROFT: We have solid information. An att*ck is coming.
Sherlock: “Solid information.” A secret t*rror1st organisation’s planning an att*ck – that’s what secret t*rror1st organisations do, isn’t it? It’s their version of golf.
MYCROFT: An agent gave his life to tell us that.
Sherlock: Oh, well, perhaps he shouldn’t have done. He was obviously just trying to show off.
MYCROFT: None of these markers of yours is behaving in any way suspiciously?  Your move.
Sherlock: No, Mycroft, but you have to trust me. I’ll find the answer. It’ll be in an odd phrase in an online blog, or an unexpected trip to the countryside, or a misplaced Lonely Hearts ad.
Sherlock: Your move.
MYCROFT: I’ve given the Prime Minister my personal assurance you’re on the case.
Sherlock: I am on the case. We’re both on the case. Look at us right now.
MYCROFT: Oh, bugger!
We realise that a clever perspective sh*t had lured us into believing they were playing chess, but the chess set is actually on the coffee table in front of the sofa.)
Sherlock: Oopsie!
Sherlock: Can’t handle a broken heart – how very telling.
MYCROFT: Don’t be smart.
Sherlock: That takes me back.  “Don’t be smart, Sherlock. I’m the smart one.”
MYCROFT : I am the smart one.
Sherlock: I used to think I was an idiot.
MYCROFT: Both of us thought you were an idiot, Sherlock. We had nothing else to go on ’til we met other children.
Sherlock: Oh, yes. That was a mistake.
MYCROFT: Ghastly. What were they thinking of?
Sherlock: Probably something about trying to make friends.
MYCROFT: Oh yes. Friends. Of course, you go in for that sort of thing now.
Sherlock: And you don’t? Ever?
MYCROFT: If you seem slow to me, Sherlock, can you imagine what real people are like? I’m living in a world of goldfish.
Sherlock: Yes, but I’ve been away for two years.
MYCROFT: So?
Sherlock: Oh, I don’t know. I thought perhaps you might have found yourself a ... goldfish.
MYCROFT : Change the subject – now!
Sherlock: Rest assured, Mycroft – whatever this underground network of yours is up to, the secret will reside in something seemingly insignificant or bizarre.
MYCROFT: Speaking of which ...
MRS HUDSON : I can’t believe it. I just can’t believe it! Him – sitting in his chair again!
MRS HUDSON: Oh, isn’t it wonderful, Mr Holmes?
MYCROFT: I can barely contain myself
Sherlock: Oh, he really can, you know.
MRS HUDSON: He’s secretly pleased to see you underneath all that ... .
MYCROFT: Sorry – which of us?
MRS HUDSON: Both of you.
Sherlock: Let’s play something different.
MYCROFT : Why are we playing games?
Sherlock: Well, London’s terror alert has been raised to Critical.  I’m just passing the time. Let’s do deductions.
and dangly pom poms hanging from each flap.)
Sherlock: Client left this while I was out. What d’you reckon?
MYCROFT : I’m busy.
Sherlock: Oh, go on. It’s been an age.
MYCROFT: I always win.
Sherlock: Which is why you can’t resist.
MYCROFT : I find nothing irresistible in the hat of a well-travelled anxious sentimental unfit creature of habit with appalling halitosis ...
MYCROFT: Damn.
Sherlock: Isolated, too, don’t you think?
MYCROFT: Why would he be isolated?
Sherlock: “He”?
MYCROFT: Obviously.
Sherlock: Why? Size of the hat?
MYCROFT: Don’t be silly. Some women have large heads too.
MYCROFT: No – he’s recently had his hair cut. You can see the little hairs adhering to the perspiration stains on the inside.
Sherlock: Some women have short hair, too.
MYCROFT: Balance of probability.
Sherlock: Not that you’ve ever spoken to a woman with short hair – or, you know, a woman.
MYCROFT: Stains show he’s out of condition, and he’s sentimental because the hat has been repaired three, four ...
Sherlock: Five times.  Very neatly.  The cost of the repairs exceeds the cost of the hat, so he's mawkishly attached to it, but it’s more than that. One, perhaps two, patches would indicate sentimentality, but five? Five’s excessive behaviour. Obsessive compulsive.
MYCROFT: Hardly. Your client left it behind. What sort of an obsessive compulsive would do that?
MYCROFT: The earlier patches are extensively sun-bleached, so he’s worn it abroad – in Peru.
Sherlock: Peru?
MYCROFT: This is a chullo – the classic headgear of the Andes. It’s made of alpaca.
Sherlock: No.
MYCROFT: No?
Sherlock: Icelandic sheep wool. Similar, but very distinctive if you know what you’re looking for. I’ve written a blog on the varying tensile strengths of different natural fibres.
MRS HUDSON : I’m sure there’s a crying need for that.
Sherlock: You said he was anxious.
MYCROFT: The bobble on the left side has been badly chewed, which shows he’s a man of a nervous disposition but ...
Sherlock: ... but also a creature of habit because he hasn’t chewed the bobble on the right.
MYCROFT: Precisely.
Sherlock: Brief sniff of the offending bobble tells us everything we need to know about the state of his breath.
Sherlock: Brilliant
MYCROFT: Elementary.
Sherlock: But you’ve missed his isolation.
MYCROFT: I don’t see it.
Sherlock: Plain as day.
MYCROFT: Where?
Sherlock: There for all to see.
MYCROFT: Tell me.
Sherlock: Plain as the nose on your ...
MYCROFT: Tell me.
Sherlock: Well, anybody who wears a hat as stupid as this isn’t in the habit of hanging around other people, is he?
MYCROFT: Not at all. Maybe he just doesn’t mind being different. He doesn’t necessarily have to be isolated.
Sherlock: Exactly.
MYCROFT: I’m sorry?
Sherlock: He’s different – so what? Why would he mind? You’re quite right.
Sherlock: Why would anyone mind?
MYCROFT: ... I’m not lonely, Sherlock.
Sherlock: How would you know?
MYCROFT: Yes. Back to work if you don’t mind. Good morning.
Sherlock: Right. Back to work.
JOHN’S SURGERY. Mary knocks on the door and looks in.
MARY: Mr Summerson.
Watson: Right.
MARY: Undescended testicle.
Watson: ... Right.
221B. Sherlock holds up his phone and looks at the latest photos of one of his ‘markers’. Mrs Hudson comes to the door of the living room and watches as Sherlock draws a cross over the photo of the man which is pinned to the wall.
MRS HUDSON: Sherlock.
Sherlock: Mm?
MRS HUDSON: Talk to John.
Sherlock: I tried talking to him. He made his position quite clear.
In his surgery, John has his middle finger raised in front of him. With his other hand he pulls the medical glove tighter down onto his fingers. Mr Summerson is standing in front of him, naked from the waist down and looking awkward.
Watson: Just relax, Mr Summerson.
MRS HUDSON: What did he say?
Sherlock: F...
Watson: Cough.
MRS HUDSON: Ooh dear!
Later, John sits looking at his computer in his surgery. The intercom beeps and he switches it on.
Watson: Hi.
MARY : Er, Mrs Reeves. Thrush.
Watson: Right.
At 221B, Sherlock is standing at the window. Molly walks into the room behind him.
MOLLY: You wanted to see me?
Sherlock: Yes.
Sherlock: Molly?
MOLLY: Yes?
Sherlock: Would you ...
Sherlock: Would you like to ...
MOLLY: ... have dinner?
Sherlock: ... solve crimes?
MOLLY : Ooh.
John writes out a prescription as he talks to the woman sitting behind him.
Watson: Absolutely nothing to be ashamed of, Mrs Reeves. It’s very common ...  ... but I’m recommending a course of ...
Sherlock: ... monkey glands.
Sherlock: But enough about Professor Presbury. Tell us more about your case, Mr Harcourt.
MOLLY: Are you sure about this?
Sherlock: Absolutely.
MOLLY: Should I be making notes?
Sherlock: If it makes you feel better.
MOLLY: It’s just that that’s what John says he does, so if I’m being John ...
Sherlock: You’re not being John – you’re being yourself.
MR HARCOURT: Well, absolutely no one should have been able to empty that bank account other than myself and Helen.
Sherlock: Why didn’t you assume it was your wife?
MR HARCOURT: Because I’ve always had total faith in her.
Sherlock: No – it’s because you emptied it.  Weight loss, hair dye, Botox; affair.  Lawyer. Next!
Mary shows the next patient into the room and looks at John.
MARY: This is Mr Blake.  Piles.
Watson: Mr Blake, hi.
Sherlock is sitting on a stool close to a woman who is sitting on the sofa. He is clasping her hands and patting them sympathetically while he talks softly to her.
Sherlock: And your pen pal’s emails just stopped, did they?
Sherlock: And you really thought he was the one, didn’t you? The love of your life?
Sherlock: Stepfather posing as online boyfriend.
MOLLY : What?!
Sherlock: Breaks it off, breaks her heart. She swears off relationships, stays at home – he still has her wage coming in.
Sherlock: Mr Windibank, you have been a complete and utter ...
Watson: ... piss pot.
Watson: It’s nothing to worry about. Just a small infection by the sound of it. Er, Doctor Verner is your usual GP, yes?
MR SZIKORA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
MR SZIKORA: He looked after me, man and boy.
MR SZIKORA: I run a little shop, just on the corner of Church Street.
Watson: Oh, right.
MR SZIKORA : Er, magazines, DVDs. Brought along a few little beauties that might interest you.
MR SZIKORA: “Tree Worshippers.” Oh, that’s a corker. It’s very saucy.
MR SZIKORA: “British Birds.” Same sort of thing.
Watson: I’m fine, thanks.
MR SZIKORA : “The Holy w*r.” Sounds a bit dry, I know, but there’s a nun with all these holes in her habit.
Watson: Jesus. Sherlock ...
MR SZIKORA: Huh?
Watson: ... what do you want?
MR SZIKORA: Huh?
Watson: Have you come to torment me?
MR SZIKORA: What are you talking about?
Watson: “What are you talking ...”  What, d’you think I’m gonna be fooled by this bloody beard?
MR SZIKORA: Are you crazy?!
Watson: It’s not as good as your French. Not as good as your French. It’s not even a good disguise, Sherlock!
Watson: Where’d you get it from? A bloody joke ... sh-shop ...?
Watson: Oh my God.
Watson: I am so sorry. Oh my God.
Watson: Please for...  It’s fine.
Greg Lestrade tears down the police tape sealing a door inside a building.
LESTRADE: This one’s got us all baffled.
Sherlock: Mmm. I don’t doubt it.
(Greg opens the door and leads Sherlock and Molly down the stairs into the basement. At the foot of the stairs, a large hole has been knocked through the brickwork of one wall. They go through the hole and Greg switches on the mobile lighting which has been set up in the room. As he switches more lights on, the “skeleton mystery” which Sherlock had been reading earlier is revealed. A white-painted wooden table is at the far end of the room and seated on a chair behind it is a skeleton dressed in an old-fashioned suit. There is a carafe and a glass and what looks like a writing set on the table in front of it. The corpse is holding a syringe in one skeletal hand. Frowning, Sherlock is already zooming in on details of the scene before he walks across the room, lays his pouch of tools on the table and gets to work, examining the corpse in minute detail. Molly stands nearby, her notebook open and pen poised. Sherlock sniffs at the body and tries to decide what he is picking up:
PINE?
SPRUCE?
CEDAR
NEW MOTHBALLS
Moving on, he sniffs again:
Carbon particulate
He sniffs more deeply:
f*re Damage
He straightens up and shuts his magnifier.)
MOLLY: What is it?
MOLLY: You’re on to something, aren’t you?
Sherlock: Mm, maybe.
(John’s voice sounds in his head and the words he speaks appear in Sherlock’s mind.
SHOW OFF
Sherlock: Shut up, John.
MOLLY: What?
Sherlock: Hmm? Nothing.
At the surgery, Mary walks into John’s office wearing her coat and scarf. She goes across to where he is sitting at his desk.
MARY : Hello.
Watson: Mmm.
MARY: You sure?
Watson: I’m sure.
MARY: Okay. I’m late for Cath. I’ll see you later.
Watson: ’Bye.
MARY: ’Bye.
CRIME SCENE. As Sherlock carefully uses tweezers to lift the lapel of the skeleton’s jacket, Molly still stands some distance away waiting to write anything down. Greg leans close to Sherlock and speaks softly.
LESTRADE : This gonna be your new arrangement, is it?
Sherlock: Just giving it a go.
LESTRADE: Right. So, John?
Sherlock: Not really in the picture any more.
MOLLY: Trains?
Sherlock: Trains.
MOLLY: Male, forty to fifty.
MOLLY: Ooh, sorry, did you want to be ...?
Sherlock: Er, no, please. Be my guest.
(John’s voice sounds in his mind again:
JEALOUS?
Sherlock: Shut up!
MOLLY: Doesn’t make sense.
LESTRADE: What doesn’t?
MOLLY: This skeleton – it’s ... it can’t be any more than ...
SHERLOCK and MOLLY : ... six months old.
(Sherlock has found a hidden compartment in the side of the table and he opens it and slides out a book from inside it. He bl*ws the dust from the cover, gives it a sarcastic glance and shows it to Molly. Scrawled across the cover are the words:
How I Did It
By
Jack the Ripper
MOLLY: Wow!
Sherlock: Hmm.
LESTRADE: “How I Did It” by Jack the Ripper?!
Sherlock: Mm-hm.
MOLLY: It’s impossible!
Sherlock: Welcome to my world.
(Greg grins with delight. As Sherlock leans down to repack his pouch of tools, John’s voice sounds in his head.
SMART ARSE
Sherlock grimaces, flailing towards his own head.)
Sherlock: Get out.
Sherlock: I won’t insult your intelligence by explaining it to you.
LESTRADE: No, please – insult away!
(Sherlock has already picked up his pouch and is heading for the door but he stops when his internal John throws in another comment:
You forgot to put your collar up
Appearing confused and disoriented by this internal commentary, Sherlock turns back to the others.)
Sherlock: The-the-the corpse is-is six months old; it’s dressed in a shoddy Victorian outfit from a museum. It’s been displayed on a dummy for many years in a case facing south-east judging from the fading of the fabric. It was sold off in a f*re-damage sale ...  ... a week ago.
LESTRADE: So the whole thing was a fake.
Sherlock: Yes.
LESTRADE: Looked so promising.
Sherlock: Facile.
MOLLY: Why would someone go to all that trouble?
Sherlock: Why indeed, John?
LATER. Sherlock – with Molly at his side – pushes the doorbell to a flat. Instead of the bell ringing or buzzing, it plays a recording of an Underground announcement of a male voice saying, “Mind the gap. Mind the gap.” Molly giggles quietly as a young man answers the door. Sherlock immediately holds out the bobble hat towards him.
HOWARD: Oh. Thanks for hanging on to it.
Sherlock: No problem.
Sherlock: So, what’s this all about, Mr Shilcott?
HOWARD: My girlfriend’s a big fan of yours.
Sherlock: Girlfriend?!
Sherlock: Sorry. Do go on.
HOWARD: I like trains.
Sherlock: Yyyes.
HOWARD: I work on the Tube, on the District Line, and part of my job is to wipe the security footage after it’s been cleared.
HOWARD: I was just whizzing through and, er, I found something a bit bizarre.
HOWARD: Now, this was a week ago. The last train on the Friday night, Westminster station, and this man gets into the last car.
MOLLY: “Car”?
HOWARD: They’re cars, not carriages. It’s a legacy of the early American involvement in the Tube system.
Sherlock: He said he liked trains.
MOLLY: Hmm!
HOWARD: And the next stop ...  ... St James’s Park station ... and ...
HOWARD: I thought you’d like it.
HOWARD: He gets into the last car at Westminster, the only passenger ...
HOWARD: ... and the car is empty at St James’s Park station. Explain that, Mr Holmes.
MOLLY: Couldn’t he have just jumped off?
HOWARD: There’s a safety mechanism that prevents the doors from opening in transit. But there’s something else. The driver of that train hasn’t been to work since. According to his flatmate, he’s on holiday. Came into some money.
Sherlock: Bought off?
MOLLY : Hmm?
Sherlock: So if the driver of the train was in on it, then the passenger did get off.
HOWARD: There’s nowhere he could go. It’s a straight run on the District Line between the two stations. There’s no side tunnels, no maintenance tunnels – nothing on any map. Nothing. The train never stops, and the man vanishes. Good, innit?!
Sherlock: I know that face.
BAKER STREET. John walks towards the front door of 221 and then stands and looks at it. A man comes around the corner and walks along the road, barging past him and bumping roughly into his shoulder. John turns to look at him as he continues onwards without speaking.
Watson: ’Scuse you.
HOWARD’S BUILDING. Molly looks up the stairs and slowly walks up them towards Sherlock as he stands there with his eyes closed. After a moment he opens his eyes but can see only a ticking clock, followed by a journey through a Tube tunnel.
Sherlock: The journey between those stations usually takes five minutes. That journey took ten minutes – ten minutes to get from Westminster to St James’s Park.  So I’m going to need maps – lots of maps, older maps, all the maps.
MOLLY: Right.
Sherlock: Fancy some chips?
MOLLY: What?
Sherlock: I know a fantastic fish shop just off the Marylebone Road. The owner always gives me extra portions.
MOLLY : Did you get him off a m*rder charge?
Sherlock: No – I helped him put up some shelves.
MOLLY: Sherlock?
Sherlock: Hmm?
MOLLY: What was today about?
Sherlock: Saying thank you.
MOLLY: For what?
Sherlock: Everything you did for me.
MOLLY: It’s okay. It was my pleasure.
Sherlock: No, I mean it.
MOLLY: I don’t mean “pleasure”. I mean, I didn’t mind. I wanted to.
Sherlock: Moriarty slipped up. He made a mistake. Because the one person he thought didn’t matter at all to me was the one person that mattered the most. You made it all possible.
Sherlock: But you can’t do this again, can you?
MOLLY: I had a lovely day. I’d love to – I just ... um ...
Sherlock: Oh, congratulations, by the way.
MOLLY: He’s not from work.
MOLLY: We met through friends, the old-fashioned way. He’s nice. We ... he’s got a dog ... we-we go to the pub on weekends and he ... I’ve met his mum and dad and his friends and all his family and I’ve no idea why I’m telling you this.
Sherlock: I hope you’ll be very happy, Molly Hooper. You deserve it. After all, not all the men you fall for can turn out to be sociopaths
MOLLY: No?
Sherlock: No.
MOLLY: Maybe it’s just my type.
NIGHT TIME. There’s a full moon in the sky. John slowly starts to regain consciousness. He seems to be surrounded by foliage, and the flickers of moonlight coming through the greenery seem like a flashlight being shone on him. Choking, he tries to move his hands but finds that he can’t. He opens his mouth to cry out but no sound will come. He tries to raise his head but eventually sinks back down again. There is a bleeding wound on the right side of his head just at his hairline.
Elsewhere, Mary is walking along a street but stops to take out her phone when it beeps a text alert. Taking off her glove to activate the phone, she sees the message
Save souls now!
John or James Watson?
Saint or Sinner?
James or John?
The more is Less?
Frowning, she lowers the phone and hurries on.
Some time later she is at the door of 221 as Mrs Hudson opens the door to her knock.
MARY: Oh, Mrs Hudson.
MARY: Sorry – I-I think someone’s got John – John Watson.
MRS HUDSON: Hang on! Who are you?
MARY : Oh, I’m his fiancée.
MRS HUDSON : Ah!
Sherlock: Mary? What’s wrong?
MARY : Someone sent me this. At first I thought it was just a Bible thing, you know, spam, but it’s not. It’s a skip-code.
(Sherlock looks at her closely, then turns his attention to her phone as she shows him the first part of the message:
Save souls now!
John or James Watson?
Sherlock: First word, then every third. Save ... John ... Watson.
(Mary pulls up the rest of the message:
Saint or Sinner?
James or John?
The more is Less?
The unimportant words seem to fade, leaving just the vital ones:
Saint
James
The Less
Sherlock: Now!
MARY: Where are we going?
Sherlock: St James the Less. It’s a church. Twenty minutes by car.
Sherlock: Did you drive here?
MARY: Er, yes.
Sherlock: It’s too slow. It’s too slow.
MARY : Sherlock, what are we waiting for?
Sherlock: This.
Shortly afterwards Sherlock and Mary – wearing the helmets of the driver and his pillion passenger – are racing through the streets on the bike. In Sherlock’s mind, he is calculating how long it will take to get to St James the Less Church. Currently the journey will take 10 minutes. Mary’s phone sounds a text alert and she checks it. It reads:
Getting warmer Mr Holmes
You have about ten minutes
They drive on.
MARY: What does it mean? What are they going to do to him?
Sherlock: I don’t know.
Wherever John is, he is struggling to move. The sound of children’s voices can be heard some distance away. He grunts as he frantically strains to escape but he can make no louder noise.
On the motorcycle, Mary holds her phone over Sherlock’s shoulder so that he can see the latest message:
8 minutes
and counting...
Sherlock turns his attention back to the road and accelerates, but shortly afterwards they approach a roadblock. The road ahead is cordoned off with police tape, and two police officers are explaining the situation to stopped cars.
Sherlock: Damn!
POLICE OFFICER: Oi! Oi! You can’t go down there!
Elsewhere, a fireworks party is starting in a small park in a square near a church. Children wave their sparklers around, and some people are playing small drums. One little girl, Zoe, gazes at the gigantic bonfire which has been piled up in the middle of the park, made up of broken wooden pallets, furniture and anything else which has been scavenged. She looks up at the Guy Fawkes guy which has been perched on the top of the bonfire, completely unaware that John is at the bottom of the bonfire, lying on the ground out of sight of all the people nearby. The children gather near, perhaps knowing that it is not long until the f*re will be lit. John opens his mouth and tries again to cry out but all he can manage is a faint moan. He thrashes, trying to push himself up and continuing to moan quietly. And now a man approaches the bonfire carrying a flaming brand of wood. The children watch him delightedly. John manages to produce some slightly louder croaks but they cannot be heard above the excited chatter of the children and the drumming. Smiling cheerfully, the man lowers the brand to the foot of the f*re.
On the motorcycle, Mary receives a new message:
Better hurry
things are
hotting up here...
They continue onwards but their speed is impeded as they cross a bridge and are blocked by a slow-moving lorry.
At the park the man with the brand, trying to light the bonfire without any success, looks round and shakes his head.
MAN: No. It’s not gonna work. Bit damp. I’ll get something to help it along, yeah?
On the motorcycle, Mary shows Sherlock the newest message:
Stay of execution.
you’ve got two
more minutes
Sherlock checks his mental map, which shows that if he continues by road, their ETA is 3 minutes. However, if he goes in a straight line it will only take 1 minute. He swerves the bike and heads straight down into a pedestrian underpass.
At the bonfire, Zoe’s father – the one who tried to light the f*re – comes back with a small can of petrol. Zoe turns to him plaintively.
ZOE: He doesn’t like it, Daddy.
DAD: Eh?
ZOE: Guy Fawkes – he doesn’t like it!
DAD : Stay back, Zoe. Back. Now.
The motorcycle charges on through the underpass.
Zoe’s dad continues pouring petrol over the f*re.
Sherlock forces the bike up a steep flight of steps and out onto the street again. They are finally driving along beside the fence surrounding the park. Mary receives one more text:
What a shame
Mr Holmes.
John is quite a Guy!
She holds the phone over Sherlock’s shoulder to show him.
MARY: What does it mean?
Sherlock: Oh my God.
Watson: Help!
(Zoe screams, and now others can hear the voice too and react with horror. Her father runs to comfort her.
Sherlock races the bike into the park and hurls himself off.)
Sherlock: Jump off!
Sherlock: Move! Move! Move! Move! Move!
Sherlock: John!
MARY : John! Get out, John!
Watson: Help!
Sherlock: John? John!
MARY : John.
Sherlock: Hey, John.
221B. DAY TIME. Wearing a suit but without the usual dressing gown over it, Sherlock sits in his armchair with his eyes closed, sighing quietly and occasionally drumming his fingers on the arms of the chair. A grey-haired couple are sitting on the sofa and the woman appears to have talking for some time.
WOMAN: ... which wasn’t the way I’d put it at all. Silly woman. Anyway, it was then that I first noticed it was missing. I said, “Have you checked down the back of the sofa?”
WOMAN: He’s always losing things down the back of the sofa, aren’t you, dear?
MAN: ’Fraid so.
WOMAN: Keys, small change, sweeties. Especially his glasses.
MAN: Glasses.
WOMAN: Blooming things. I said, “Why don’t you get a chain – wear ’em round your neck?” And he says, “What – like Larry Grayson?”
MAN : Larry Grayson.
Sherlock: So did you find it eventually, your lottery ticket?
WOMAN: Well, yes, thank goodness. We caught the coach on time after all. We managed to see, er, St Paul’s, the Tower ... but they weren’t letting anyone in to Parliament.
WOMAN: Some big debate going on.
Sherlock: John!
Watson: Sorry – you’re busy.
Sherlock: Er, no-no-no, they were just leaving.
WOMAN: Oh, were we?
Sherlock: Yes.
Watson: No, no, if you’ve got a case ...
Sherlock: No, not a case, no-no-no.  Go. ’Bye.
WOMAN: Yeah, well, we’re here ’til Saturday, remember.
Sherlock: Yes, great, wonderful. Just get out.
WOMAN: Well, give us a ring.
Sherlock: Very nice, yes, good. Get out.
WOMAN : I can’t tell you how glad we are, Sherlock. All that time people thinking the worst of you.
WOMAN: We’re just so pleased it’s all over.
MAN: Ring up more often, won’t you?
Sherlock: Mm-hmm.
MAN: She worries.
WOMAN: Promise?
Sherlock: Promise.
Sherlock: Oh, for God...
Sherlock: Sorry about that.
Watson: No, it’s fine. Clients?
Sherlock: ... Just my parents.
Watson: Your parents?
Sherlock: In town for a few days.
Watson: Your parents?
Sherlock: Mycroft promised to take them to a matinee of “Les Mis”. Tried to talk me into doing it.
Watson: Those were your parents?
Sherlock: Yes.
Watson: Well ...  That is not what I ...
Sherlock: What?
Watson: I-I mean they’re just ... so ...
Watson: ... ordinary.
Sherlock: It’s a cross I have to bear.
Watson: Did they know, too?
Sherlock: Hmm?
Watson: That you spent the last two years playing hide and seek.
Sherlock: Maybe.
Watson: Ah! So that’s why they weren’t at the funeral.
Sherlock: Sorry. Sorry again.
Watson: Mm.
Sherlock: Sorry.
Sherlock: See you’ve shaved it off, then.
Watson: Yeah. Wasn’t working for me.
Sherlock: Mm, I’m glad.
Watson: What, you didn’t like it?
Sherlock: No. I prefer my doctors clean-shaven.
Watson: That’s not a sentence you hear every day!
Sherlock: How are you feeling?
Watson: Yeah, not bad. Bit ... smoked.
Sherlock: Right.
Watson: Last night – who did that? And why did they target me?
Sherlock: I don’t know.
Watson: Is it someone trying to get to you through me? Is it something to do with this t*rror1st thing you talked about?
Sherlock: I don’t know. I can’t see the pattern. It’s too nebulous.
Sherlock: Why would an agent give his life to tell us something incredibly insignificant? That’s what’s strange.
Watson: “Give his life”?
Sherlock: According to Mycroft. There’s an underground network planning an att*ck on London – that’s all we know.
Sherlock: These are my rats, John.
Watson: Rats?
Sherlock: My markers: agents, low-lifes, people who might find themselves arrested or their diplomatic immunity suddenly rescinded. If one of them starts acting suspiciously, we know something’s up. Five of them are behaving perfectly normally, but the sixth ...
Watson: I know him, don’t I?
Sherlock: Lord Moran, peer of the realm, Minister for Overseas Development. Pillar of the establishment.
Watson: Yes!
Sherlock: He’s been working for North Korea since 1996.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: He’s the Big Rat. Rat Number One. And he’s just done something very suspicious indeed.
Later, Sherlock is showing Howard’s footage of the mysterious Tube train disappearance to John, who has taken his coat off.
Watson: Yeah, that’s ... odd. There’s nowhere he could have got off?
Sherlock: Not according to the maps.
Watson: Mm.
Sherlock: There’s something – something, something I’m missing, something staring me in the face.
Watson: Any idea who they are – this underground network?
Watson: Intelligence must have a-a list of the most obvious ones.
Sherlock: Our rat’s just come out of his den.
Watson: Al-Qaeda; the IRA have been getting restless again – maybe they’re gonna make an appearance ...
Sherlock: Yes, yes, yes, yes, YES! I’ve been an idiot – a blind idiot!
Watson: What?
Sherlock: Oh, that’s good. That could be brilliant.
Watson: What are you on about?
Sherlock: Mycroft’s intelligence – it’s not nebulous at all. It’s specific – incredibly specific.
Watson: What do you mean?
Sherlock: Not an underground network, John. It’s an Underground network.
Watson: Right. ... What?
Sherlock: Sometimes a deception is so audacious, so outrageous that you can’t see it even when it’s staring you in the face.
Sherlock: Look – seven carriages leave Westminster ...  ... but only six carriages arrive at St James’s Park.
Watson: But that’s ... I ... it’s-it’s impossible.
Sherlock: Moran didn’t disappear – the entire Tube compartment did. The driver must have diverted the train and then detached the last carriage.
Watson: Detached it where?! You said there was nothing between those stations.
Sherlock: Not on the maps, but once you eliminate all the other factors, the only thing remaining must be the truth.  That carriage vanished, so it must be somewhere.
Watson: But why, though? Why detach it in the first place?
Sherlock: It vanishes between St James’s Park and Westminster. Lord Moran vanishes. You’re kidnapped and nearly b*rned to death at a fireworks par...
Sherlock: What’s the date, John – today’s date?
Watson: Hmm? November the ... My God.
Sherlock: Lord Moran – he’s a peer of the realm. Normally he’d sit in the House. Tonight there’s an all-night sitting to vote on the new anti-terrorism Bill.
Sherlock: But he won’t be there. Not tonight.  Not the fifth of November.
Watson: “Remember, remember.”
Sherlock: “g*n, treason and plot.”
Shortly afterwards Howard Shilcott – sitting in his living room and wearing his bobble hat – is Skypeing with the boys on the laptop while Sherlock and John frantically search through maps and papers on the kitchen table at 221B.
HOWARD: There’s nothing down there, Mr Holmes, I told you. No sidings, no ghost stations.
Sherlock: There has to be. Check again.
Watson: Look – this whole area is a big mess of old and new stuff. Charing Cross is made up of bits of older stations like Trafalgar Square, Strand ...
Sherlock: No, it’s none of those. We’ve accounted for those.
Sherlock: St Margaret’s Street, Bridge Street, Sumatra Road, Parliament Street ...
HOWARD : Hang on, hang on. Sumatra Road. You mentioned Sumatra Road, Mr Holmes.  There is something. I knew it rang a bell.  Where is it?  There was a station down there.
Watson: Well, why isn’t it on the maps?
HOWARD: ’Cause it was closed before it ever opened.
Watson: What?
HOWARD : They built the platforms, even the staircases, but it all got tied up in legal disputes, so they never built the station on the surface.
Sherlock: It’s right underneath the Palace of Westminster.
Watson: And so what’s down there? A b*mb?
Watson: Oh ...
NEWSREADER : With many commentators saying the vote on the terrorism Bill will be too close to call, MPs are now making their way into the Chamber for what the government is calling the most important vote of this parliament. Over now to our ...
MALE VOICE : What freedoms exactly are we protecting if we start spying on our own people? This is an Orwellian measure on a scale unprecedented ...
Sherlock and John walk briskly along the road near the Houses of Parliament and head to the stairs leading down into Westminster station. They walk across the concourse, past the fangirls, through the ticket barriers and along the corridors.
Watson: So it’s a b*mb, then? A Tube carriage is carrying a b*mb.
Sherlock: Must be.
Watson: Right.
Sherlock: What are you doing?
Watson: Calling the police.
Sherlock: What? No!
Watson: Sherlock, this isn’t a game. They need to evacuate Parliament.
Sherlock: They’ll get in the way. They always do. This is cleaner, more efficient.
Watson: And illegal.
Sherlock: A bit.
Sherlock: What are you doing?
Watson: Coming.
Sherlock: I don’t understand.
Watson: Well, that’s a first!
Sherlock: There’s nowhere else it could be.
(He turns to face the track and brings his hands up to either side of his head, screwing his eyes shut and concentrating. In his mind, he finds himself sitting on a seat inside the missing Tube car/carriage. He is the only passenger. At the far end, smoke comes under the bottom of the door and pours towards him. He turns his head to look and a fireball ignites behind the smoke and then races along the carriage, engulfing Sherlock’s position and continuing onwards.
Sherlock’s mental image of himself relocates to the tunnel about a hundred yards away from the carriage. The inferno billows out of the carriage towards him but just before it reaches him it is sucked up a large open vent in the ceiling.
At ground level above the Tube line, heated gas shimmers as it is forced through various air vents inside the Houses of Parliament. The perspective shifts to the opposite side of the River Thames ... and the entire Palace of Westminster goes up in a massive expl*si*n.
Sherlock’s eyes snap open.)
Sherlock: Oh!
Watson: What?
Watson: Hang on. Sherlock?
Sherlock: What?
Watson: That’s ... Isn’t it live?
Sherlock: Perfectly safe as long as we avoid touching the rails.
Watson: ’Course, yeah Avoid the rails. Great
Sherlock: This way.
Watson: You sure?
Sherlock: Sure.
Watson: Ah. Look at that.
Sherlock: John.
Watson: Hmm?
Watson: Demolition charges.
Watson: It’s empty. There’s nothing.
Sherlock: Isn’t there?
Sherlock: This is the b*mb.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: It’s not carrying expl*sives. The whole compartment is the b*mb.
In his hotel room, Moran opens a briefcase and lifts the lid. Inside is what is clearly a detonator – it has a small screen, a number pad, a slot for a key, and a Let’sSendTheWorldToHell button which almost disappointingly is neither very big nor painted red. A couple of keys lie beside the device.
While John continues lifting seat cushions, Sherlock looks around the carriage and then takes a few steps along the aisle before realising that a floor panel is loose. As John looks down at the latest batch of expl*sives, Sherlock takes his gloves off and bends to the panel, forcing his fingers into the gap and lifting it. Underneath is what can only be described as the ‘mother b*mb’ – a device massively larger than the ones under the cushions. While John takes several deep nervous breaths, Sherlock props the panel up against the wall of the train. They both look down at the massive device, then John looks up at Sherlock.
Watson: We need b*mb disposal.
Sherlock: There may not be time for that now.
Watson: So what do we do?
Sherlock: I have no idea.
Watson: Well, think of something.
Sherlock: Why d’you think I know what to do?
Watson: Because you’re Sherlock Holmes. You’re as clever as it gets.
Sherlock: Doesn’t mean I know how to defuse a giant b*mb. What about you?
Watson: I wasn’t in b*mb disposal. I’m a bloody doctor.
Sherlock: And a soldier, as you keep reminding us all.
Watson: Can’t-can’t we rip the timer off, or something?
Sherlock: That would set it off.
Watson: You see? You know things.
In his room, Moran types the code 051113 onto the number pad. He inserts one of the keys into its slot and turns it. The device beeps. He releases the key, then reaches to the Not Big Red Button and presses it.
In the Tube carriage, all the lights come on and the countdown clock on the mother b*mb begins to tick down. The boys look around in shock, and John groans.
Sherlock: Er ...
Watson: My God!
Sherlock: Er ...
Watson: Why didn’t you call the police?
Sherlock: Please just ...
Watson: Why do you never call the police?
Sherlock: Well, it’s no use now.
2:15
Watson: So you can’t switch the b*mb off? You can’t switch the b*mb off and you didn’t call the police.
Sherlock: Go, John.  Go now.
Watson: There’s no point now, is there, because there’s not enough time to get away; and if we don’t do this ...  ... other people will die!
1:57
Watson: Mind Palace.
Sherlock: Hmm?
Watson: Use your Mind Palace.
Sherlock: How will that help?
Watson: You’ve salted away every fact under the sun!
Sherlock: Oh, and you think I’ve just got “How To Defuse A b*mb” tucked away in there somewhere?
Watson: Yes!
Sherlock: Maybe.
Watson: Think.
Watson: Think. Please think.
Watson: Think!
Watson: Oh my God.
Watson: This is it.
Sherlock: Um, er ...
Watson: Oh my God.
Sherlock: Turn that off. Oh God! Er, um, er ...
1:29
Sherlock: I’m sorry.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: I can’t ... I can’t do it, John. I don’t know how.
Sherlock: Forgive me?
Watson: What?
Sherlock: Please, John, forgive me ... for all the hurt that I caused you.
Watson: No, no, no, no, no, no. This is a trick.
Sherlock: No.
Watson: Another one of your bloody tricks.
Sherlock: No.
Watson: You’re just trying to make me say something nice.
Sherlock: Not this time.
Watson: It’s just to make you look good even though you behaved like ...
Watson: I wanted you not to be d*ad.
Sherlock: Yeah, well, be careful what you wish for.
Sherlock: If I hadn’t come back, you wouldn’t be standing there and ...
Sherlock: ... you’d still have a future ... with Mary.
Watson: Yeah. I know.
Watson: Look, I find it difficult.
Watson: I find it difficult, this sort of stuff.
Sherlock: I know.
Watson: You were the best and the wisest man ...  ... that I have ever known.
Watson: Yes, of course I forgive you.
The scene whites out.
From the point of view of a video camera, Sherlock is sitting on a sofa in front of a window and looking directly into the camera.
Sherlock: The criminal network Moriarty headed was vast.
Sherlock: Its roots were everywhere like a cancer, so we came up with a plan.
Sherlock: Mycroft fed Moriarty information about me.
Sherlock: Moriarty in turn gave us hints – just hints – as to the extent of his web. We let him go ...
Sherlock: ... because it was important to let him believe he had the upper hand.  And then I sat back and watched Moriarty destroy my reputation bit by bit.
Sherlock: I had to make him believe he’d beaten me, utterly defeated me, and then he’d show his hand.
Sherlock: There were thirteen likely scenarios once we were up on that roof. Each of them were rigorously worked out and given a code name. It wasn’t just my reputation that Moriarty needed to bury – I had to die.
JIM: You can have me arrested ...
JIM: ... you can t*rture me; you can do anything you like with me ...
JIM: ... but nothing’s gonna prevent them from pulling the trigger.
JIM: Your only three friends in the world will die ... unless ...
Sherlock: ... unless I k*ll myself – complete your story.
JIM: You’ve gotta admit that’s sexier.
Sherlock: But the one thing I didn’t anticipate was just how far Moriarty was prepared to go. I suppose that was obvious, given our first meeting at the swimming pool – his death wish.
Sherlock: I knew I didn’t have long. I contacted my brother; set the wheels in motion.
Sherlock: And then everyone got to work.
(On the ground, a group of men carry a giant airbag – currently deflated – out into the street. Molly looks out of the window. Sherlock steps up onto the ledge. Beside the ambulance station, the team is rolling out the airbag. Molly closes her eyes briefly, then looks upwards. Standing a short distance away from the hospital, a woman looks up towards the roof as if awaiting a signal. John’s taxi continues on its way to the hospital. As the airbag team continue their work, other people are standing and waiting. One of them has a stethoscope around his neck. The first woman looks around and sees the man on the cycle waiting nearby, one foot on a pedal and ready to go. A few feet away a second cyclist pushes his bike into position. The first cyclist has an earpiece in his ear, and many of the others – possibly all of them – do too. A faint male voice can be heard, presumably relaying instructions through the earpieces. John’s taxi turns into the road near the ambulance station, and a large group of men comes around the corner. The taxi pulls up. Sherlock takes his phone from his pocket and sees a reply to his earlier text:
LAZARUS IS GO
John gets out of the taxi and heads towards the hospital, taking Sherlock’s phone call as he goes. Unseen by John – whose view is blocked by the ambulance station – the truck full of rubbish bags is in position by the bus stop, several people are waiting by the wall of the ambulance station, and the airbag is inflating just to the side of the station.)
Sherlock: It’s a trick. Just a magic trick.
Watson: All right, stop it now.
Sherlock: No, stay exactly where you are. Don’t move.
(On the far side of the station, the team is carrying the airbag forward with blowers still attached to it as it continues to inflate.
John’s attention is fully focussed on Sherlock.)
Watson: All right.
Sherlock: Keep your eyes fixed on me.  Please, will you do this for me?
(The woman takes a phone call, and the second cyclist gets onto his bike.
Sherlock lowers his phone to his side, then drops it onto the roof.)
Sherlock: It was vital that John stayed just where I put him. That way, his view was blocked by the ambulance station.
Watson: SHERLOCK!
(Sherlock spreads his arms to either side and falls forward, plummeting towards the ground. Inside the building, Molly gasps as he falls past her window. We see from John’s point of view as the last thirty feet or so of the fall are blocked from his view by the station.
Unseen by him, Sherlock is plunging towards the airbag, twisting as he goes.)
Sherlock: I needed to h*t the airbag – which I did.
Sherlock: Speed was paramount.
Sherlock: The airbag needed to be got out of the way just as John cleared the station.
Sherlock: But we needed him to see a body.
Sherlock: That’s where Molly came in.
Sherlock: Like figures on a weather clock, we went one way, John went the other.
Sherlock: Then our well-timed cyclist ...
Sherlock: ... put John briefly out of action ...
Sherlock: ... giving me time to switch places with the corpse on the pavement.
Sherlock: The rest was just window dressing.
Sherlock: And one final touch ...
Sherlock: ... a squash ball under the armpit.
Sherlock: Apply enough pressure and it momentarily cuts off the pulse.
Watson: Let me come through, please.
WOMAN: It’s all right ...
Watson: No, he’s my friend.
WOMAN: It’s all right, it’s all right.
Watson: No, he’s my friend.
Watson: He’s my friend. Please, let me just check ...
In front of the video camera, Sherlock looks dispassionately into the lens. Anderson is sitting on a chair on the other side of the camera.
Sherlock: Everything was anticipated; every eventuality allowed for. It worked ...  ... perfectly.
ANDERSON: Molly? Molly Hooper? She was in on it?
Sherlock: Yes. You remember the little girl who was abducted by Moriarty?
LESTRADE: Get out!
Sherlock: You assumed she reacted like that because I was her kidnapper. But I deduced Moriarty must have found someone who looked very like me to plant suspicion, and that that man – whoever he was – had to be got out of the way as soon as his usefulness ended. That meant there was a corpse in a morgue somewhere that looked just like me.
ANDERSON: Clever.
Sherlock: Molly found the body, faked the records, and I provided the other coat. I’ve got lots of coats.
ANDERSON: And what about the sn*per aiming at John?
Sherlock: Mycroft’s men intervened before he could take the sh*t. He was invited to reconsider.
MYCROFT: Is it done?
MYCROFT: Good.
ANDERSON: And your homeless network?
Sherlock: As I explained, the whole street was closed off ...  ... like a scene from a play.
Sherlock: Neat, don’t you think?
ANDERSON: Hmm.
Sherlock: What?
ANDERSON: Not the way I’d have done it.
Sherlock: Oh really?
ANDERSON: No, I’m not saying it’s not clever, but ...
Sherlock: What?
ANDERSON: ... Bit ... disappointed.
Sherlock: Everyone’s a critic. Anyway, that’s not why I came.
ANDERSON: No?
Sherlock: No. I think you know why I’m here, Phillip. “How I Did It” by Jack the Ripper.
ANDERSON: Didn’t you think it was intriguing?
Sherlock: Lurid. A case so sensational, you hoped I’d be interested. But you overdid it, Phillip – you and your little ‘fan club’.
ANDERSON: I just couldn’t live with myself, knowing that I’d driven you to ...
Sherlock: But you didn’t. You were always right. I wasn’t d*ad.
ANDERSON : No. No, and everything’s okay now, isn’t it?
Sherlock: Yeah.
Sherlock: Of course you’ve wasted police time, perverted the course of justice, risked distracting me from a massive t*rror1st as*ault that could have both destroyed Parliament and caused the death of hundreds of people.
ANDERSON : Oh, God.
ANDERSON: Oh, God, I’m sorry, Sherlock. I’m so sorry.
ANDERSON : Hang on.
ANDERSON: That doesn’t make sense.
ANDERSON: How could you be sure John would stand on that exact spot? I mean, what if he’d moved?
ANDERSON : Hey – how did you do it all so quickly? What if the bike hadn’t h*t him?  And anyway, why are you telling me all this?  If you’d pulled that off, I’m the last person you’d tell the truth ...
ANDERSON : Sherlock Holmes!
ANDERSON : Sherlock!
The whited-out scene fades back in again and John is standing in the Tube carriage with his eyes closed and his head raised. He grips the handrail and lowers his head, bl*wing out a long breath. Nearby it sounds as if Sherlock is crying. His head is lowered and the back of his hand is across his mouth as his body shakes with what seem to be sobs. John screws his eyes even more tightly closed. Sherlock lowers his hand and turns his head away, then turns back, hooting with laughter. John opens his eyes and looks across to him as Sherlock giggles in high-pitched hilarity. Staring at him, John steps forward and looks down at the countdown clock on the mother b*mb. It is repeatedly flicking back and forth between 1:28 and 1:29. John turns away as if he can’t believe it.
Flashback to Sherlock frantically staring down at the b*mb while John turns away. Sherlock’s gaze immediately falls on a small switch on the side of the b*mb. He grins, then squeezes his fingers down the side of the device to flick the switch.
In the present, John turns back to look at the clock again and then stares upwards in disbelief.
Watson: You ...
Sherlock: Oh, your face!
Watson: ... utter ...
Sherlock: Your face!
Watson: You ...
Sherlock: I totally had you.
Watson: You cock! I knew it! I knew it! You f...
Sherlock: Oh, those things you said – such sweet things! I-I never knew you cared
Watson: I will k*ll you if you ever breathe a word of this ...
Sherlock: Scout’s honour.
Watson: ... to anyone. You KNEW!
Sherlock: Ahh.
Watson: You knew how to turn it off!
Sherlock: There’s an Off switch.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: There’s always an Off switch.
Sherlock: t*rrorists can get into all sorts of problems unless there’s an Off switch.
Watson: So why did you let me go through all that?
Sherlock: I didn’t lie altogether. I’ve absolutely no idea how to turn any of these silly little lights off.
Sherlock: Oh!
Watson: And you did call the police.
Sherlock: ’Course I called the police.
Watson: I’m definitely gonna k*ll you.
Sherlock: Oh, please k*lling me – that’s so two years ago.
HOTEL. A uniformed female member of staff wheels a trolley along the corridor, presumably on her way to deliver a meal to one of the rooms. She passes Room 305 and the camera stops and focuses on the door. Your transcriber – exhausted and almost delirious by now – raises her eyebrows and hopes very much that this is the room in which Sherlock and John are celebrating their reunion. Sadly, it’s Lord Moran who opens the door and looks cautiously up and down the corridor before picking up his briefcase and leaving the room. When he gets to the lift he presses the Down button repeatedly, clearly not understanding that, like traffic lights, pushing the button more than once will never make things happen any more quickly. It doesn’t matter anyway, because almost immediately a g*n is cocked behind his head and the muzzle held to the back of his neck. The g*n is being held by the uniformed woman we just saw. As Moran raises his hands, two men run towards him from opposite directions, also aiming p*stol at him.
BAKER STREET. DAY TIME. Outside the door to 221B, reporters and photographers are milling around in the road. Over a phone can be heard the song “Do you hear the people sing?” from ‘Les Miserables’. Mycroft’s voice comes over the phone, his tone desperate.
MYCROFT’s VOICE: Sherlock, please. I beg of you. You can take over at the interval.
Sherlock: Oh, I’m sorry, brother dear, but you made a promise. There’s nothing I can do to help.
MYCROFT : But you don’t understand the pain of it – the horror!
Watson: Come on. You’ll have to go down. They want the story.
Sherlock: In a minute.
MRS HUDSON: Oh, I’m really pleased, Mary. Have you set a date?
MARY: Er, well we thought May.
MRS HUDSON: Oh! Spring wedding!
MARY: Yeah. Well, once we’ve actually got engaged.
Watson: Yeah.
MARY : We were interrupted last time.
Watson: Yeah.
LESTRADE: Well, I can’t wait.
MARY: You will be there, Sherlock?
Sherlock: Weddings – not really my thing.
(He looks across and winks at her. She smiles.
The door opens.)
MOLLY: Hello, everyone.
Watson: Hey, Molly.
MOLLY : This is Tom.
MOLLY: Tom, this is everyone.
TOM: Hi.
LESTRADE: Hi.
TOM: It’s really nice to meet you all.  Hi.
Watson: Wow. Yeah, hi. I’m John.  Good to meet you.
Sherlock: Ready?
Watson: Ready.
LESTRADE : Champagne?
MOLLY: Yes.
(Sherlock’s jaw drops open a little and he turns his eyes towards John, who grins back at him expectantly. Finally Sherlock holds out his hand to Tom, and they shake hands. Glancing down at Molly, Sherlock walks in between the couple and out of the door. Tom turns to watch him go.
Greg hands Molly a glass of champagne.)
MOLLY: Thanks.
TOM: Thank you.
MRS HUDSON: Sit down, love.
TOM: Oh, thanks.
LESTRADE: So, um, is it serious, you two?
MOLLY : Yeah! I’ve moved on!
(A little doubtfully, Greg looks across to Tom who is already being chatted to by Mary and Mrs H.
Outside on the landing, John walks over to Sherlock, who is looping his scarf around his neck. John points back towards the door.)
Watson: Did you, er ...?
Sherlock: I’m not saying a word.
Watson: No, best not.
Watson: I’m still waiting.
Sherlock: Hmm?
Watson: Why did they try and k*ll me? If they knew you were on to them, why go after me – put me in the bonfire?
Sherlock: I don’t know. I don’t like not knowing.
Sherlock: Unlike the nicely embellished fictions on your blog, John, real life is rarely so neat.
Sherlock: I don’t know who was behind all this, but I will find out, I promise you.
Watson: Don’t pretend you’re not enjoying this.
Sherlock: Hmm?
Watson: Being back. Being a hero again.
Sherlock: Oh, don’t be stupid.
Watson: You’d have to be an idiot not to see it. You love it.
Sherlock: Love what?
Watson: Being Sherlock Holmes.
Sherlock: I don’t even know what that’s supposed to mean.
Watson: Sherlock, you are gonna tell me how you did it? How you jumped off that building and survived?
Sherlock: You know my methods, John. I am known to be indestructible.
Watson: No, but seriously. When you were d*ad, I went to your grave.
Sherlock: I should hope so.
Watson: I made a little speech. I actually spoke to you.
Sherlock: I know. I was there.
Watson: I asked you for one more miracle. I asked you to stop being d*ad.
Sherlock: I heard you.
Sherlock: Anyway, time to go and be Sherlock Holmes.
LESTRADE: They just walked out of there!
DONOVAN: Yeah, I know. I was sort of sitting next to you.
LESTRADE: The whole Waters family! They just walked right out of there!
DONOVAN: Again, I was in the room.
LESTRADE : How do they always manage that?
DONOVAN: They’re good.
LESTRADE: They’re greedy, and they’ll do it again, and next time we’re gonna catch ’em in the act.
DONOVAN: How?
TWELVE MONTHS AGO. A newspaper article is headed, “WHO STOLE OUR TWO MILL?” and shows police officers standing in a cordoned-off area outside a building, with a car parked behind the cordon. In real life, Greg gets into the driver’s seat of the car and angrily slams the door closed. Sally is sitting in the passenger seat.
DONOVAN: No good?
LESTRADE: They always know we’re coming.  How do they always know?
DONOVAN: They’re good. They work at it.
LESTRADE: They’re never gonna stop.
DONOVAN: Well, neither are we.
SIX MONTHS AGO. A new headline reads, “POLICE ARE NO CLOSER TO WATERS g*ng CONVICTION” and the photograph again shows the court. Greg storms out of the building with Sally behind him. He lets out an angry incoherent noise as he walks away.
THREE MONTHS AGO. This time the headline reads, “Waters g*ng walk free – again!” and there is another photo of two men near the court, covering their faces against the photographers. On the steps outside the court, two uniformed police officers stand and watch while Greg repeatedly kicks the living daylights out of the back tyre of his car, grunting with fury. Sally stands beside the driver’s door and helplessly watches him. Finally she has had enough.
DONOVAN : Greg!
LESTRADE : In the act! The only way we’re gonna do this! In. The. Act!
YESTERDAY. A man wearing a gruesome clown’s mask and holding a sawn-off g*n looks around a bank vault and then turns to where a second man, wearing a different but equally horrid-looking mask, straightens up from typing on a laptop. A third masked man is inside a nearby open strong room and is slowly carrying three heavy gold ingots toward the door. The laptop screen shows, “ALARMS OFFLINE”. The second man goes into the strong room where hundreds of gold ingots are stacked up on a couple of pallets. He lifts three ingots on top of each other, then hauls them up in his hands and makes his way out.
On a different laptop the screen shows the same information as the one in the vault but this one now displays a second message reading, “*** HACKING DETECTED***”. In a car outside the bank, Sally sits in the passenger seat with the laptop on her lap. The rooftop lights of nearby police cars are flashing and police officers are walking around. Greg sits beside her.
LESTRADE: You still blocking it?
DONOVAN: Yeah. Very efficiently hacked. They must be bloody pleased with themselves.
LESTRADE: They must be!
(Inside the strong room the third clown is looking down at the two pallets, which are now empty. The second clown walks over to him and puts his hand on his shoulder.
Outside, armed police begin to run into the bank. Greg and Sally are out of the car and Greg gestures to her as they follow the others.)
LESTRADE: Right then?
DONOVAN: Oh, no! No, you’ve gotta make the arrest. This one’s yours, boss.
LESTRADE: You’ve never called me ‘boss’ before.
DONOVAN: Ah, well, look what happens when you’re good!
LESTRADE: You know how most days aren’t good days? This is a good day.
DONOVAN: Not for the Waters family.
DONOVAN: Okay: ten men on the roof; all exits covered; the bank’s closed, so there are no hostages to worry about ...
LESTRADE: Sorry, no, go on, go on.
DONOVAN: Um, we’ve got the tunnel entrance covered; and Davies, Willard and Christie are heading up our Response on Mafeking Road.
LESTRADE: Sorry, I’d better get this.
DONOVAN : It’s him, isn’t it?
(Greg’s face fills with shock as he reads the string of messages he has received:
HELP.
BAKER ST.
NOW.
HELP ME.
PLEASE.
He looks up at Sally.)
LESTRADE: I-I, I have to go.
DONOVAN : What?!
LESTRADE: You make the arrest.
DONOVAN: No way!
LESTRADE: Sorry. You’ll be fine. I’m-I’m-I’m cool with this.
DONOVAN: Jones’ll get all the credit if you leave now! You know he will!
LESTRADE: Yeah, but d... It doesn’t matter. I have to go.
(He turns and hurries away. Sally watches him for a moment, grimacing, then continues on with the other officers.
Outside, Greg is running for his car, making a phone call as he goes.)
LESTRADE : Back-up. I need maximum back-up. Baker Street, now!
221B BAKER STREET. Greg races up the stairs and into the living room.
LESTRADE : What’s going on?
Sherlock: This is hard.
LESTRADE: What?
Sherlock: Really hard. Hardest thing I’ve ever had to do.
Sherlock: Have you any funny stories about John?
LESTRADE: What?!
Sherlock: I need anecdotes.
Sherlock: Didn’t go to any trouble, did you?
OPENING CREDITS.
At 221B Baker Street, violin playing can be heard, playing a gentle waltz. Mrs Hudson comes out of 221A carrying a tray of tea things. She stops, smiling with delight at the sound of the music, then goes up the stairs. The living room door is closed and she stops outside for a moment, then opens the door. Inside, Sherlock isn’t playing his violin as she believed. Instead, wearing a camel coloured dressing gown over his clothes, he is waltzing around the room on his own, holding an imaginary partner as he dances in time to the music. He glances over his shoulder as his landlady walks in.
Sherlock: Shut up, Mrs Hudson.
MRS HUDSON: I haven’t said a word.
Sherlock: You’re formulating a question. It’s physically painful watching you thinking.
MRS HUDSON: I thought it was you playing.
Sherlock: It was me playing.
Sherlock: I am composing.
MRS HUDSON : You were dancing.
Sherlock: I was road-testing.
MRS HUDSON: You what?
Sherlock: Why are you here?
MRS HUDSON: I’m bringing you your morning tea.  You’re not usually awake.
Sherlock: You bring me tea in the morning?
MRS HUDSON : Well, where d’you think it came from?!
Sherlock: I don’t know. I just thought it sort of happened.
MRS HUDSON: Your mother has a lot to answer for.
Sherlock: Mm, I know. I have a list. Mycroft has a file.
MRS HUDSON : So – it’s the big day, then!
Sherlock: What big day?
MRS HUDSON: The wedding! John and Mary getting married!
Sherlock: Two people who currently live together are about to attend church, have a party, go on a short holiday and then carry on living together. What’s big about that?
MRS HUDSON: It changes people, marriage.
Sherlock: Mmm, no it doesn’t.
MRS HUDSON: Well, you wouldn’t understand ’cause you always live alone.
Sherlock: Your husband was ex*cuted for double m*rder. You’re hardly an advert for companionship.
MRS HUDSON: Marriage changes you as a person, in ways that you can’t imagine.
Sherlock: As does lethal injection.
MRS HUDSON: My best friend, Margaret – she was my chief bridesmaid.
MRS HUDSON: We were going to be best friends forever, we always said that; but I hardly saw her after that.
Sherlock: Aren’t there usually biscuits?
MRS HUDSON: I’ve run out.
Sherlock: Have the shops?
MRS HUDSON: She cried the whole day, saying, “Ooh, it’s the end of an era.”
Sherlock: I’m sure the shop on the corner is open.
MRS HUDSON: She was probably right, really.
MRS HUDSON: I remember she left early. I mean, who leaves a wedding early?  So sad.
Sherlock: Mmm. Anyway, you’ve got things to do.
MRS HUDSON: No, not really. I’ve got plenty of time to ...
Sherlock: Biscuits.
MRS HUDSON : I really am going to have a word with your mother.
Sherlock: You can if you like. She understands very little.
Sherlock: Right, then.
Sherlock: Into battle.
A man is doing up the buttons on the jacket of his military dress uniform. Although it would seem easier to use two hands to do this, he is only using his right hand. A suitcase is on the nearby bed and laid out beside it is a white webbing belt, a pair of white gloves, a military cap and a ceremonial sword. The man reaches down and picks up the belt and swings it around the left-hand side of his waist and then clamps it to his side with his left arm and now we see why he is only using his right hand. His left hand has been badly b*rned in the past and is very scarred. It is clear that he is unable to use this hand. Reaching behind himself he tugs the belt around his waist, pulls it tight and does it up. He bends down to the cap, picks it up and puts it on, and we now see that the left side of his face is also severely scarred. He stares ahead of himself as he straightens his jacket.
Church bells peal and the doors to a church open. John and Mary, newly married, walk out followed by Sherlock and the chief bridesmaid, whose name is Janine, then two more bridesmaids and the vicar. A photographer is waiting outside.
PHOTOGRAPHER: Congratulations! Okay, hold it there – I wanna get this sh*t of the newlyweds.
PHOTOGRAPHER: Er, just the bride and groom, please.
Watson: Sherlock?
Sherlock: Oh, sorry.
PHOTOGRAPHER: Okay – three, two, one, cheese!
(The bridesmaids throw handfuls of confetti into the air and the photographer starts taking pictures. The rest of the congregation come out and the photo-taking continues, including one of John, Sherlock and Greg standing side by side, with a young pageboy – about eight years old – standing in front of them wearing either John’s or Sherlock’s top hat. Later, the photographer takes a picture of Sherlock and Janine. Nearby, Molly stands with her fiancé Tom. She is gazing at Sherlock and if she really believes that she has “moved on”, her expression suggests that she’s not fooling anyone but herself.
After the photographer has finished with them, Janine looks round at Sherlock.)
JANINE: The famous Mr Holmes! I’m very pleased to meet you. But no sex, okay?
Sherlock: Um, sorry?
JANINE : You don’t have to look so scared. I’m only messing. Bridesmaid, best man ... It’s a bit traditional.
Sherlock: Is it?
JANINE : But not obligatory
Sherlock: If that’s the sort of thing you’re looking for ...  ... the man over there in blue is your best bet. Recently divorced doctor with a ginger cat ...  ... a barn conversion ...  ... and a history of erectile dysfunction.
Sherlock: Reviewing that information, possibly not your best bet.
JANINE: Yeah, maybe not.
Sherlock: Sorry – there was one more deduction there than I was expecting.
JANINE: Mr Holmes ...  ... you’re going to be incredibly useful.
Later, John and Mary, with Sherlock at John’s side, are standing outside the venue for the reception, greeting the guests.
MARY : Hello. Lovely to meet you.
MARY: How are you?
MAN: You look beautiful, Mary.
MARY: Thank you!
MAN: Congratulations.
MARY: David!
DAVID: Mary. Congratulations. You look, um, very nice.
DAVID: John, congratulations. You’re a lucky man.
Watson: Thank you.
MARY: Um, er, David, this is Sherlock.
DAVID: Um, yeah. We’ve, um, we’ve met.
FLASHBACK. David, sitting at the dining table in 221B, looks round the room and then turns to where Sherlock is sitting opposite him holding a pen.
DAVID: So, what exactly are my duties as an usher?
and idly plays with it. Sherlock frowns disapprovingly, then puts down his pen and folds his hands.)
Sherlock: Let’s talk about Mary, first.
DAVID: Sorry, what?
Sherlock: Oh, I think you know what. You went out with her for two years.
DAVID: A-ages ago. We’re j... we’re just good friends now.
Sherlock: Is that a fact?
Sherlock: Whenever she tweets, you respond within five minutes regardless of time or current location, suggesting you have her on text alert. In all your Facebook photographs of the happy couple, Mary takes centre frame whereas John is always partly or entirely excluded.
DAVID : You can’t assume from that I’ve still got some kind of interest in Mary.
Sherlock: You volunteered to be a shoulder to cry on on no less than three separate occasions. Do you have anything to say in your defence?
Sherlock: I think from now on we’ll downgrade you to ‘casual acquaintance’. No more than three planned social encounters a year, and always in John’s presence.
Sherlock: I have your contact details. I will be monitoring.
DAVID : They’re right about you. You’re a bloody psychopath.
Sherlock: High-functioning sociopath ... with your number.
THE PRESENT. David makes a couple of anxious noises, waves briefly to Mary and goes indoors. John looks round at Sherlock with a curious expression but Sherlock raises his head and looks inscrutable. The next guest approaches.
MARY: Hello!
MARY: Pleased to see you.
WOMAN: Congratulations.
Watson: Thanks for coming, thank you.
Sherlock: Mm, yes, um, well done in the service, Archie.
MUM: He’s really come out of his shell. I don’t know how you did it.
Sherlock: Um ...
FLASHBACK. 221B. Sherlock sits in his chair and looks at Archie sitting in John’s chair.
Sherlock: Basically it’s a cute smile to the bride’s side, cute smile to the groom’s side and then the rings.
ARCHIE : No.
Sherlock: And you have to wear the outfit.
ARCHIE : No.
Sherlock: You really do have to wear the outfit.
ARCHIE : What for?
Sherlock: Grown-ups like that sort of thing.
ARCHIE : Why?
Sherlock: ... I don’t know. I’ll ask one.
ARCHIE : You’re a detective.
Sherlock: Yep.
ARCHIE: Have you solved any m*rder?
Sherlock: Sure. Loads.
ARCHIE: Can I see?
Sherlock: Yeah, all right.
ARCHIE: What’s all the stuff in his eye?
Sherlock: Maggots.
ARCHIE: Cool!
Sherlock: Mm!
THE PRESENT. Archie is still hugging Sherlock.
MUM: He said you had some pictures for him, as a treat.
Sherlock: Er, yes ...  ... if he’s good.
ARCHIE : Beheadings.
Sherlock: Lovely little village.
MUM: Hmm?  What did you say?
INSIDE. Molly is canoodling with Tom, repeatedly kissing his cheek. Tom indicates that the photographer is approaching them, and she turns and smiles into the camera as he takes some pictures.
PHOTOGRAPHER: Nice.
(He moves on to the next nearest couple, who are Mrs Hudson and what must surely be Mr Chatterjee from the sandwich shop. She smiles happily for the camera; Mr Chatterjee doesn’t look quite so happy to be there. The photographer turns and snaps several pictures of Greg sitting at a table and drinking. Greg raises his glass to him.
John and Mary are standing nearby. John indicates as a waiter approaches with a plate of canapés.)
Watson: Oh, d’you want ...?
MARY : I’m starving.
Watson: Thanks.
MARY: Had to lose so much weight to get into this dress.
JANINE: He’s nice.
Sherlock: Traces of two leading brands of deodorant, both advertised for their strength, suggestive of a chronic body odour problem manifesting under stress.
JANINE: Okay, done there. What about his friend?
Sherlock: Long-term relationship, compulsive cheat.
JANINE: Seriously?
Sherlock: Waterproof cover on his smartphone.  Yet his complexion doesn’t indicate outdoor work.  Suggests he’s in the habit of taking his phone into the shower with him, which means he often receives texts and emails he’d rather went unseen.
JANINE: Can I keep you?
Sherlock: D’you like solving crimes?
JANINE: Do you have a vacancy?
(Sherlock’s eyes drift over to John, then he looks away again.
Mary puts a hand on John’s shoulder.)
MARY: So, Harry?
Watson: Er, no. No show.
MARY: Darling, I’m so sorry.
Watson: It was a bit of a punt asking her, I suppose. Still, free bar – wouldn’t have been a good mix.
Watson: Oh, God, wow!
MARY: Oh, G... Is that ...?
Watson: He came!
Sherlock: So that’s him. Major Sholto.
MARY: Uh-huh.
Sherlock: If they’re such good friends, why does he barely even mention him?
MARY: He mentions him all the time to me. He never shuts up about him.
Sherlock: About him?
MARY: Mm-hmm.
MARY: Urgh. I chose this wine. It’s bloody awful.
Sherlock: Yes, but it’s definitely him that he talks about?
MARY: Mm-hmm.
Watson: I’m very, very glad to see you, sir. I know you don’t really do this sort of thing.
SHOLTO: Well, I do for old friends, Watson ... John. It’s good to see you.
Watson: You too.
SHOLTO: Civilian life suiting you, then?
Watson: Er, er, yes, well ...  ... I think so, sir.
SHOLTO: No more need for the trick cyclist?
Watson: No, I-I go now and then. Sort of a top-up.
Watson: Therapy can be very helpful.
Watson: Where are you living these days?
SHOLTO: Oh, way out in the middle of nowhere. You wouldn’t know it.
Sherlock: I’ve never even heard him say his name.
MARY: Well, he’s almost a recluse – you know, since ...
Sherlock: Yes.
MARY: I didn’t think he’d show up at all. John says he’s the most unsociable man he’s ever met.
Sherlock: He is? He’s the most unsociable?
MARY: Mm.
Sherlock: Ah, that’s why he’s bouncing round him like a puppy.
MARY: Oh, Sherlock! Neither of us were the first, you know.
Sherlock: Stop smiling.
MARY: It’s my wedding day!
Elsewhere, the camera pans across the interior of a grand building and into a room with a large old painting on the wall and a suit of armour standing nearby. A steady regular thumping sound can be heard. The camera pans around the corner and reveals a running machine. Mycroft – dressed in gym clothes – is jogging on the machine. After a while he switches it off and jumps off, breathing heavily. He walks a few paces away, then stops and lifts his top to examine his stomach, patting it reflectively and looking quite pleased with himself. On a nearby table, his phone rings. He picks it up and answers.
MYCROFT : Yes, what, Sherlock?
Sherlock: Why are you out of breath?
MYCROFT: Filing.
Sherlock: Either I’ve caught you in a compromising position or you’ve been working out again. I favour the latter.
MYCROFT: What do you want?
Sherlock: I need your answer, Mycroft, as a matter of urgency.
MYCROFT: “Answer”?
Sherlock: Even at the eleventh hour it’s not too late, you know.
MYCROFT : Oh, Lord.
Sherlock: Cars can be ordered, private jets commandeered.
MYCROFT: Today. It’s today, isn’t it? No, Sherlock, I will not be coming to the “night do”, as you so poetically put it.
Sherlock: What a shame. Mary and John will be extremely d...
MYCROFT: ... delighted not to have me hanging around.
Sherlock: Oh, I don’t know. There should always be a spectre at the feast.
MYCROFT : So, this is it, then. The big day.  I suppose I’ll be seeing a lot more of you from now on.
Sherlock: What do you mean?
MYCROFT: Just like old times.
Sherlock: No, I don’t understand.
MYCROFT: Well, it’s the end of an era, isn’t it? John and Mary – domestic bliss.
Sherlock: No, no, no – I prefer to think of it as the beginning of a new chapter.
Sherlock: What?
MYCROFT: Nothing!
Sherlock: I know that silence. What?
MYCROFT: Well, I’d better let you get back to it. You have a big speech, or something, don’t you?
Sherlock: What?
MYCROFT: Cake, karaoke ... mingling.
Sherlock: Mycroft!
MYCROFT: This is what people do, Sherlock – they get married. I warned you: don’t get involved.
Sherlock: Involved? I’m not involved.
MYCROFT : No.
Sherlock: John asked me to be his best man. How could I say no?
MYCROFT : Absolutely!
Sherlock: I’m not involved!
MYCROFT : I believe you! Really, I do! Have a lovely day, and do give the happy couple my best.
Sherlock: I will.
MYCROFT: Oh, by the way, Sherlock – do you remember Redbeard?
Sherlock: I’m not a child any more, Mycroft.
MYCROFT: No, of course you’re not. Enjoy not getting involved, Sherlock.
Fast-forward – literally – through the wedding meal as the guests eat their way through the three courses and drink lots of champagne, and then the Master of Ceremonies – or possibly just the head waiter – taps a spoon against a champagne glass to get everyone’s attention.
MASTER OF CEREMONIES: Pray silence for the best man.
Sherlock: Ladies and gentlemen, family and friends ... and ... erm ... others.
Sherlock: Er ... w...
Sherlock: A-a-also ...
FLASHBACK. Greg walks into Molly’s lab at Bart’s.
MOLLY: Greg.
LESTRADE: Molly.
MOLLY : I just had a thought.
LESTRADE: Is that a brain?!
MOLLY: What if John asks Sherlock to be his best man?
LESTRADE: Well, he will, won’t he? He’s bound to.
MOLLY: Exactly.
LESTRADE: So?
MOLLY: So he’ll have to make a speech in front of people.
MOLLY: There’ll be actual people there, actually listening.
LESTRADE : Well, what’s the worst that could happen?
MOLLY: Helen-Louise probably wondered the same.
LESTRADE: Helen-Louise?
FLASHBACK. Mrs Hudson, sitting in her kitchen, answers the phone.
MRS HUDSON: Oh, hallo, dear.
MOLLY : I was just thinking. If-if John does ask Sherlock ...
MRS HUDSON: What, the speech, dear? No, it’ll be fine.
MOLLY: It-it’s not just the speech, though, is it?
Shortly afterwards, John lets himself in the front door of 221 and walks towards the stairs. High-pitched hysterical noises are coming through the open door of 221A. As the noises continue, punctuated with an occasional squeal of “Oh, dear!” and “Oh, brilliant!” John goes into her flat and looks into the kitchen in concern.
Watson: Mrs Hudson?
MRS HUDSON: Oh, hello, darling!
Watson: You all right?
Watson: I was – I was coming to see Sherlock, and I thought you were ...
MRS HUDSON : Go!
Watson: ... possibly dying.
MRS HUDSON: Oh, sorry!
Watson: What’s wrong?
MRS HUDSON: The-the telegrams!
Watson: Sorry, what?
MRS HUDSON : Oh, sorry, dear!
THE PRESENT. John closes his eyes in realisation.
Watson: Telegrams.
Sherlock: Right, um ...
Sherlock: First things first. Telegrams.
Sherlock: Well, they’re not actually telegrams. We just call them telegrams. I don’t know why. Wedding tradition.
Sherlock: ... because we don’t have enough of that already, apparently.
Sherlock: “To Mr and Mrs Watson. So sorry I’m unable to be with you on your special day. Good luck and best wishes, Mike Stamford.”
Watson: Ah, Mike.
MARY: Ahh!
Sherlock: “To John and Mary. All good wishes for your special day. With love and many big ...  ... big squishy cuddles, from Stella and Ted.”
Sherlock: “Mary – lots of love, ...”
Watson: Yeah?
Sherlock: “... poppet ...”
Sherlock: “... Oodles of love and heaps of good wishes from CAM.”
Sherlock: “Wish your family could have seen this.”
Watson: Hey. Hmm?
Sherlock: Um, “special day” ...  ... “very special day” ...  ... “love” ... “love” ... “love” ... “love” ... “lo...”; bit of a theme – you get the gist. People are basically fond.
Sherlock: John Watson.  My friend, John Watson.  John.
Sherlock: When John first broached the subject of being best man, I was confused.
FLASHBACK. John trots up the stairs to 221B.
Watson: Sherlock?
Sherlock: What was that noise downstairs?
Watson: Er, it was Mrs Hudson laughing.
Sherlock: Sounded like she was torturing an owl.
Watson: Yeah. Well, it was laughter.
Sherlock: Could have been both.
Watson: Busy?
Sherlock: Just occupying myself. Sometimes, it’s so-o-o hard not smoking.
Watson: Mm-hmm. Mind if I interrupt?
Sherlock: Er, be my guest.
Sherlock: Tea?
Watson: Er ...
Watson: So. The big question.
Sherlock: Mm-hm.
Watson: The best man.
Sherlock: The best man?
Watson: What do you think?
Sherlock: Billy Kincaid.
Watson: Sorry, what?
Sherlock: Billy Kincaid, the Camden Garrotter. Best man I ever knew. Vast contributions to charity, never disclosed.
Sherlock: Personally managed to save three hospitals from closure and ran the best and safest children’s homes in north England.
Sherlock: Yes, every now and again there’d be some garrottings, but stacking up the lives saved against the garrottings, on balance I’d say ...
Watson: For my wedding! For me. I need a best man.
Sherlock: Oh, right.
Watson: Maybe not a garrotter.
Sherlock: Gavin?
Watson: Who?
Sherlock: Gavin Lestrade? He’s a man, and good at it.
Watson: It’s Greg. And he’s not my best friend.
Sherlock: Oh, Mike Stamford, I see. Well, he’s nice, um, though I’m not sure how well he’d cope with all ...
Watson: No, Mike’s great, but he’s not my best friend.
Watson: Look, Sherlock, this is the biggest and most important day of my life.
Sherlock: Well ...
Watson: No, it is! It is, and I want to be up there with the two people that I love and care about most in the world.
Sherlock: Yes.
Watson: Mary Morstan ...
Sherlock: Yes.
Watson: ... and ...
Watson: ... you.
RECEPTION.
Sherlock: I confess at first I didn’t realise he was asking me. When finally I understood, I expressed to him that I was both flattered and ... surprised.
FLASHBACK. Sherlock has frozen solid, staring blankly in John’s direction but not actually looking at him. John taps his foot patiently.
RECEPTION.
Sherlock: I explained to him that I’d never expected this request and I was a little daunted in the face of it.
FLASHBACK. Sherlock is still motionless.
Watson: Sherlock.
RECEPTION.
Sherlock: I nonetheless promised that I would do my very best to accomplish a task which was – for me – as demanding and difficult as any I had ever contemplated. Additionally, I thanked him for the trust he’d placed in me ...
Sherlock: ... and indicated that I was, in some ways, very close to being ... moved by it.
FLASHBACK. Sherlock is still fixed in place, staring sightlessly ahead of him. The silence drags on for long seconds.
Watson: That’s getting a bit scary now.
RECEPTION.
Sherlock: It later transpired that I had said none of this out loud.
FLASHBACK. Sherlock’s brain finally begins to reboot and he takes a breath. He swallows and narrows his eyes slightly as he refocuses and looks at John.
Sherlock: So, in fact ...
Sherlock: You-you mean ...
Watson: Yes.
Sherlock: I’m your ...
Sherlock: ... best ...
Watson: ... man.
Sherlock: ... friend?
Watson: Yeah, ’course you are. ’Course you’re my best friend.
Watson: Well, how was that?
Sherlock: Surprisingly okay.
Watson: So you’ll have to make a speech, of course.
RECEPTION. Sherlock reaches into his jacket pocket, clearing his throat, and takes out a handful of cue cards, looking at each one and putting it onto the table as he talks to himself.
Sherlock: Done that. ... Done that ... Done that bit ... Done that bit ... Done that bit ... Hmm ...
Sherlock: I’m afraid, John, I can’t congratulate you.
Sherlock: All emotions, and in particular love, stand opposed to the pure, cold reason I hold above all things. A wedding is, in my considered opinion, nothing short of a celebration of all that is false and specious and irrational and sentimental in this ailing and morally compromised world.
Sherlock: Today we honour the death-watch beetle that is the doom of our society and, in time – one feels certain – our entire species.
Sherlock: But anyway ...  ... let’s talk about John.
Watson: Please.
Sherlock: If I burden myself with a little help-mate during my adventures, it is not out of sentiment or caprice – it is that he has many fine qualities of his own that he has overlooked in his obsession with me.
Sherlock: Indeed, any reputation I have for mental acuity and sharpness comes, in truth, from the extraordinary contrast John so selflessly provides.
Sherlock: It is a fact, I believe, that brides tend to favour exceptionally plain bridesmaids for their big day. There is a certain analogy there, I feel.
Sherlock: ... and contrast is, after all, God’s own plan to enhance the beauty of his creation ...
Sherlock: ... or it would be if God were not a ludicrous fantasy designed to provide a career opportunity for the family idiot.
Sherlock: The point I’m trying to make is that I am the most unpleasant, rude, ignorant and all-round obnoxious arsehole that anyone could possibly have the misfortune to meet.
Sherlock: I am dismissive of the virtuous ...
Sherlock: ... unaware of the beautiful ...
Sherlock: ... and uncomprehending in the face of the happy. So if I didn’t understand I was being asked to be best man, it is because I never expected to be anybody’s best friend.
Sherlock: Certainly not the best friend of the bravest and kindest and wisest human being I have ever had the good fortune of knowing.
Sherlock: John, I am a ridiculous man ...
Sherlock: ... redeemed only by the warmth and constancy of your friendship. But, as I’m apparently your best friend, I cannot congratulate you on your choice of companion.
Sherlock: Actually, now I can.
Sherlock: Mary, when I say you deserve this man, it is the highest compliment of which I am capable. John, you have endured w*r, and injury, and tragic loss ...  ... so sorry again about that last one ...  ... so know this: today you sit between the woman you have made your wife and the man you have saved – in short, the two people who love you most in all this world. And I know I speak for Mary as well when I say we will never let you down, and we have a lifetime ahead to prove that.
Watson: If I try and hug him, stop me.
MARY: Certainly not.
Sherlock: Ah, yes. Now on to some funny stories about John ...
Sherlock: What’s wrong? What happened? Why are you all doing that? John?
MRS HUDSON : Oh, Sherlock!
Sherlock: Did I do it wrong?
Watson: No, you didn’t. Come here.
Sherlock: I haven’t finished yet.
Watson: Yeah, I know, I know.
Sherlock: So, on to some funny stories ...
Watson: Can you – can you wait ’til I sit down?
Sherlock: So, on to some funny stories about John.
Sherlock: If you could all just cheer up a bit, that would ...
Sherlock: ... be better. On we go. So, for funny stories ...  ... one has to look no further than John’s blog.
Sherlock: The record of our time together. Of course, he does tend to romanticise things a bit, but then, you know ...  ... he’s a romantic. We’ve tackled some strange cases: the Hollow Client ...
FLASHBACK. John and Sherlock walk up the stairs and into the living room of 221B, then stop d*ad at the sight that greets them. In John’s chair which is facing towards the door is a suit, laid out exactly as it would appear if there was actually anyone inside it and sitting in the chair. There is even a pair of shoes at the bottom of the trousers.
Sherlock: ... the Poison Giant ...
FLASHBACK. A man is running across a rooftop. As he comes into full view we see that he is a person of short stature. He stops and raises a blowpipe to his lips.
Sherlock: Get down, John!
Sherlock: We’ve had some frustrating cases ...
FLASHBACK. In 221B John sits down at the dining table with a mug of tea. He looks across to Sherlock sitting in his chair, who is running his finger across his top lip and frowning down thoughtfully at a matchbox held in his other hand.
Watson: What is that?
Sherlock: A French decathlete found completely out of his mind, surrounded by one thousand, eight hundred and twelve matchboxes – all empty except this one.
Watson: And what’s in that one?
Sherlock: The inexplicable.
Sherlock: ... ‘touching’ cases ...
FLASHBACK. John is standing at the window of 221B looking down into the street.
Watson: She’s going to ring the doorbell.
Watson: Oh, no. She’s changed her mind.
Watson: No, she’s gonna do it ... No, she’s leaving. She’s leaving. ... Oh, she’s coming back.
Sherlock: She’s a client. She’s boring. I’ve seen those symptoms before.
Watson: Hmm?
Sherlock: Oscillation on the pavement always means there’s a love affair.
Sherlock: ... and of course I have to mention the elephant in the room.
FLASHBACK. The boys stand in the doorway of what looks like a fairly ordinary room somewhere. They stare up wide-eyed at what they can see. Sherlock opens his mouth. Offscreen, an elephant trumpets loudly. Sherlock closes his mouth again.
Sherlock: But we want something ... very particular for this special day, don’t we?
Sherlock: The Bloody Guardsman.
FLASHBACK. John’s blog entry entitled “The Bloody Guardsman” drifts across the screen for a moment, then fades to a view of Sherlock standing in the living room of 221B looking at his information wall behind the sofa. He turns to where Mary is sitting at the dining table and John is sitting in his armchair and looking at his phone.
Sherlock: Need to work on your half of the church, Mary. Looking a bit thin.
MARY : Ah, orphan’s lot. Friends – that’s all I have. Lots of friends.
Sherlock: Schedule the organ music to begin at precisely 11.48.
MARY: But the rehearsal’s not for another two weeks. Just calm down.
Sherlock: Calm? I am calm. I’m extremely calm.
MARY: Let’s get back to the reception, come on.
MARY : John’s cousin. Top table?
Sherlock: Hmm. Hates you. Can’t even bear to think about you.
MARY : Seriously?
Sherlock: Second class post, cheap card ...  ... bought at a petrol station. Look at the stamp: three attempts at licking. She’s obviously unconsciously retaining saliva.
MARY: Ah.  Let’s stick her by the bogs.
Sherlock: Oh yes.
MARY: Who else hates me?
MARY: Oh great – thanks
Watson: Priceless painting nicked. Looks interesting.
MARY : Table four ...
Sherlock: Done.
Watson: “My husband is three people.”
MARY: Table five.
Sherlock: Major James Sholto. Who he?
MARY: Oh, John’s old commanding officer. I don’t think he’s coming.
Watson: He’ll be there.
MARY: Well, he needs to RSVP, then.
Watson: He’ll be there.
MARY: Mmm ...
Watson: “My husband is three people.” It’s interesting. Says he has three distinct patterns of moles on his skin.
Sherlock: Identical triplets – one in half a million births. Solved it without leaving the flat. Now, serviettes.
Sherlock: Swan, or Sydney Opera House?
MARY: Where’d you learn to do that?
Sherlock: Many unexpected skills required in the field of criminal investigation ...
MARY: Fibbing, Sherlock.
Sherlock: I once broke an alibi by demonstrating the exact severity of ...
MARY: I’m not John. I can tell when you’re fibbing.
Sherlock: Okay – I learned it on Youtube.
MARY: Opera House, please.
MARY: Ooh, hang on. I’m buzzing.
MARY: Hello?
MARY: Oh, hi, Beth!
MARY : Yeah, yeah, don’t see why not.
Watson: Actually, if that’s Beth, it’s probably for me too. Hang on.
(He heads for the kitchen, while Sherlock sits down on the floor cross-legged and facing the coffee table.
In the kitchen, John smiles at Mary as he walks closer to her. They talk quietly.)
Watson: He knows we don’t have a friend called Beth. He’s gonna figure out that it’s code.
MARY: He’s Youtube-ing serviettes.
Watson: He’s thorough.
MARY: He’s terrified.
Watson: ’Course he’s not.
MARY: Right, you know when you’re scared of something, you start wishing it sooner just to get it all going? That’s what he’s doing.
Watson: Why would he be scared that we’re getting married? It’s not gonna change anything – we’ll still do stuff.
MARY: Well, you need to prove it to him. I told you to find him a new case.
Watson: I’m trying.
MARY: You need to run him, okay? Show him it’s still the good old days.
(She nods encouragingly to him. He doesn’t immediately respond, and she nods again and gestures towards the living room. He looks around, then turns and slowly starts towards the door between the kitchen and the living room. Mary puts her hands on his back and shoves him forward.
Sherlock is still sitting cross-legged on the floor in front of the coffee table, his head propped up on one hand. He briefly looks round at John, then turns back and gestures at what’s in front of him. There are at least seven serviettes folded in Sydney Opera House shapes on the table, and sixteen or so more on the floor.)
Sherlock: That just sort of ... happened.
Watson: Sherlock, um ...
Watson: ... mate ...
Watson: I-I’ve ...
Watson: I’ve smelled eighteen different perfumes; I’ve sampled ...  ... nine different slices of cake which all tasted identical; I like the bridesmaids in purple ...
Sherlock: Lilac.
Watson: ... lilac. Um, there are no more decisions left to make. I don’t even understand the decisions that we have made. I’m faking opinions and it’s exhausting, so please, before she comes back ...
Watson: ... pick something.
Watson: Anything. Pick one.
Sherlock: Pick what?
Watson: A case. Your Inbox is bursting. Just ... get me out of here.
Sherlock: You want to go out on a case? N-now?
Watson: Please, Sherlock, for me.
Sherlock: Don’t you worry about a thing. I’ll get you out of this.
Sherlock: Oh.
[Transcriber’s note for the following scenes: my knowledge of military terminology is extremely limited. I have googled the heck out of certain terms in the hope of getting them right but am not confident that I am using the correct words all the time. I’m happy to take corrections from people with expertise.
Click here for information about Her Majesty’s Foot Guards, which also indicates that Sherlock is incorrect in referring to his new client as a ‘Grenadier’. While I wouldn’t necessarily expect him to have the knowledge of how to distinguish between the different Guards, I would have expected the writers to do their homework.]
In a military barracks inside a grand building, two members of The Queen’s Foot Guards wearing full dress uniform and carrying their tall fur bearskin caps walk up the stairs. The voice of one of them narrates his message to Sherlock.
BAINBRIDGE : “Dear Mr Holmes, My name is Bainbridge. I’m a Private in Her Majesty’s Household Guard. I’m writing to you about a personal matter ...
BAINBRIDGE : “... one I don’t care to bring before my superiors – it would sound so trivial – but I think someone’s stalking me.
BAINBRIDGE : “I’m used to tourists – it’s part of the job – but this is different. Someone’s watching me.
BAINBRIDGE : “He’s taking pictures of me every day.
BAINBRIDGE : “Don’t want to mention it to the major, but it’s really preying on my mind.”
Sherlock: Uniform fetishist. “All the nice girls like a soldier.”
Watson: It’s “sailor”.
Watson: And Bainbridge thinks his stalker is a bloke.
Watson: Let’s go and investigate. Please?
Sherlock: “Elite Guard.”
Watson: Forty enlisted men and officers.
Sherlock: Why this particular Grenadier? Curious.
Watson: Now you’re talking.
Sherlock: Okay.
MARY : ’Bye.
Watson: Er, we’re just going to ... I need, um, Sherlock to help me choose some, er, socks.
Sherlock: ... ties.
MARY : Why don’t we go with socks?
Watson: Yeah.
MARY: I mean, you’ve got to get the right ones.
Watson: Exactly – to go with my ...
Sherlock: ... tie.
Watson: ... outfit.
MARY : That’ll take a while, right?
Watson: My coat in there?
MARY: Yes!
Sherlock: Just going to take him out for a bit – run him.
MARY: I know.
MARY : You said you’d find him a case!
Sherlock: Mm.
Watson: Come on, Sherlock.
Sherlock: Coming.
Sherlock: Taxi!
There are a few interspersed scenes of a group of Guards marching back to the barracks, and Sherlock and John making their way to the barracks themselves. The Guards arrive back and are in the parade ground marching into position preparing to be dismissed.
PARADE SERGEANT: Company, halt! ... Right turn!
Watson: We’re here to see Private Stephen Bainbridge.
DUTY SERGEANT: He’s on duty right now, sir ...  ... but I’ll certainly let him know when he’s free.
Sherlock: And when will that be?
DUTY SERGEANT: Another hour.
Bainbridge, with another Foot Guard, is on duty outside the gates of the barracks. He stands fixed in position and tourists take photographs. Over the other side of the road and a few yards back from the pavement, Sherlock and John are sitting on a bench in the park looking towards the gates.
Sherlock: Do you think they give them classes?
Watson: Classes?
Sherlock: How to resist the temptation to scratch their behinds?
Watson: Afferent neurons in the peripheral nervous system.
Watson: Bum itch.
Sherlock: Oh!
Sherlock: So why don’t you see him any more?
Watson: Who?
Sherlock: Your previous commander, Sholto.
Watson: “Previous commander”.
Sherlock: I meant “ex”.
Watson: “Previous” suggests that I currently have a commander.
Sherlock: Which you don’t.
Watson: Which I don’t.
Sherlock: ’Course you don’t. He was decorated, wasn’t he? A w*r hero.
Watson: Not to everyone. He led a team of crows into battle.
Sherlock: “Crows”?
Watson: New recruits. It’s standard procedure; break the new boys in – but it went wrong. They all d*ed; he was the only survivor. The press and the families gave him hell. He gets more death thr*at than you.
Sherlock: Oh, I wouldn’t count on that.
Watson: Why have you suddenly taken an interest in another human being?
Sherlock: I’m ... chatting.
Sherlock: Won’t be trying that again.
Watson: Changing the subject completely ...  ... you know it won’t alter anything, right, me and Mary, getting married? We’ll still be doing all this.
Sherlock: Oh, good.
Watson: If you were worrying.
Sherlock: Wasn’t worried.
Watson: See, the thing about Mary – she has completely turned my life around; changed everything. But, for the record, over the last few years there are two people who have done that ... and the other one is ...
Watson: ... a complete dickhead.
Inside the barracks, the duty sergeant sits at his desk looking through paperwork. Through the window behind him, three pairs of Guards march past, only the upper part of their bodies and their bearskins visible. A seventh bearskin-wearing person marches behind them ... except that this one is wearing a highly non-regulation Belstaff coat.
Outside, Sherlock marches along behind the others, smartly swinging his arms, then he stops, takes off the bearskin and puts it down on a nearby ledge. Using the window above the ledge as a mirror, he ruffles his flattened hair back into position, then heads off across the parade ground.
Inside the barracks, he walks across the entrance hall towards one of two flights of stairs. Two Guards wearing standard khaki army attire walk down the other flight and Sherlock turns his head away from them and apparently instantly becomes invisible, because they take no notice of him. He trots up the stairs, employing the “I’m invisible if I don’t look at you” trick again partway up when two more soldiers walk across the landing, then he goes up onto the landing. Several voices can be heard talking and laughing from a nearby room, and he walks across and opens the door. Inside is a rec room where many soldiers are sitting and chatting. Two are playing table tennis and others are watching them. Sherlock must have gone into invisibility mode again, because nobody looks at him or reacts in any way. He closes the door again and moves on.
Outside the barracks, a new Guard has come to relieve Bainbridge. He marches over, turns to stand at Bainbridge’s side and shuffles sideways until their shoulders touch. Bainbridge marches forward a few paces, then turns and marches into the barracks.
Inside, now holding his bearskin under his arm, he walks up the stairs. His face appears to be rather sweaty. He walks into the shower room, puts the bearskin down and undoes his white webbing belt, grimacing a little. Putting the belt down, he starts to unbutton his jacket.
In an office nearby, an officer called Major Reed is sitting behind his desk and looking at John’s military ID card. He looks up at John who is sitting opposite him.
REED: Can I ask what this is in connection with?
Watson: Private Bainbridge contacted us about a personal matter, sir.
REED: Nothing’s personal when it concerns my troops. What do you really want?
Watson: I’m here on a legitimate enquiry.
REED: Press? Digging for some bloody Royal story or something?
Watson: No, sir, I’m Captain John Watson, Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers.
REED: Retired. You could be a used car salesman now, for all I know.
The duty sergeant walks into the shower room. One of the showers is running and steam billows across the floor.
DUTY SERGEANT: Bainbridge! Gentleman here to see you!
DUTY SERGEANT: Bainbridge!
REED’S OFFICE. Major Reed looks closely at John.
REED: I know you, don’t I?
Watson: Hmm?
REED: I’ve seen you in the papers.
REED: Hang around with that detective – the one with the silly hat. What the hell does Bainbridge want with a detective?
Watson: I’m afraid I’m not at liberty to say.
REED: You’re not at liberty to say?! He’s a soldier in my regiment – I’ll be damned if he’s going to get up to cloak and dagger nonsense like this.
DUTY SERGEANT: Sir ...
DUTY SERGEANT: Sir.
REED: What’s going on?
DUTY SERGEANT: It’s Bainbridge, sir. He’s d*ad.
In the shower room, Bainbridge is now lying face down on the floor on top of a great deal of broken glass. There is a lot of blood on his lower back. The duty sergeant leads the others in, and Reed hurries over to the body staring at it in shock.
REED: My God!
Watson: Ah, no, let me take a look, sir. I’m a doctor.
REED: What? Sergeant, arrest this man.
Watson: What? No-no! I’m a – I’m a doctor.
REED: Oh, you’re a doctor now, too. Sergeant ...
Watson: Let me examine him, please!
SERGEANT: Sir, caught this one snooping around.
REED: Is that what this was all about? Distracting me so that this man could get in here and k*ll Bainbridge?
Watson: Don’t be ...
Sherlock: k*ll him with what? Where’s the w*apon?
REED: What?
Sherlock: Where’s the w*apon? Go on, search me.  No w*apon.
Watson: Bainbridge was on parade. He came off duty five minutes ago. When’s this supposed to have happened?
REED : You obviously s*ab him before he got into the shower.
Sherlock: No.
REED: No?!
Sherlock: He’s soaking wet and there’s still shampoo in his hair. He got into the shower and then someone s*ab him.
DUTY SERGEANT: The cubicle was locked from the inside, sir. I had to break it open.
REED: You must have climbed over the top.
Sherlock: Well then I’d be soaking wet too, wouldn’t I?
Watson: Major, please. I’m John Watson, Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers. Three years in Afghanistan, a veteran of Kandahar, Helmand, and Bart’s bloody Hospital.  Let me examine this body.
Watson: Thank you.
DUTY SERGEANT: su1c1de?
Sherlock: No. The w*apon again – no Kn*fe.
Watson: Hmm. There is a wound to the abdomen – incredibly fine.
Sherlock: Man s*ab to death. No m*rder w*apon. Door locked from the inside. Only one way in or out of here.
Watson: Sherlock.
Sherlock: Mmm?
Watson: He’s still breathing.
DUTY SERGEANT: Oh my God.
Sherlock: What do we do?
Watson: Give me your scarf.
Sherlock: What?
Watson: Quickly, now.
Watson: Call an ambulance.
SERGEANT: What?
Watson: Call an ambulance now.
Watson: Do it!
Watson: Nurse, press here – hard.
Sherlock: “Nurse”?
Watson: Yeah, I’m making do. Keep pressure on that wound.
Watson: Stephen. Stephen, stay with me.
RECEPTION.
Sherlock: Private Bainbridge had just come off guard duty. He’d stood there for hours, plenty of people watching, nothing apparently wrong. He came off duty and within minutes was nearly d*ad from a wound in his stomach, but there was no w*apon. Where did it go? Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to consider this: a m*rder who can walk through walls, a w*apon that can vanish – but in all of this there is only one element which can be said to be truly remarkable. Would anyone like to make a guess?
Sherlock: Come on, come on, there is actually an element of Q and A to all of this.
Sherlock: Scotland Yard.
Sherlock: Have you got a theory?
Sherlock: Yeah, you. You’re a detective – broadly speaking. Got a theory?
LESTRADE: Er, um, if the, uh, if the, if-if-if, if the blade was, er, propelled through the, um ...  ... grating in the air vent ... maybe a-a ballista or a – or a – or a catapult. Erm, somebody tiny could-could crawl in there.  So, yeah, we’re loo... we’re looking for a-a-a-a dwarf.
Sherlock: Brilliant.
LESTRADE: Really?
Sherlock: No.
Sherlock: Next!
TOM : He s*ab himself.
Sherlock: Hello? Who was that?
Sherlock: Tom.
Sherlock: Got a theory?
TOM : Um ... attempted su1c1de, with a blade made of compacted blood and bone; broke after piercing his abdomen ... like a meat ... dagger.
Sherlock: A meat dagger.
TOM : Yes.
MOLLY : Sit. Down.
Sherlock: No.
Sherlock: There was one feature, and only one feature, of interest in the whole of this baffling case, and quite frankly it was the usual. John Watson – who, while I was trying to solve the m*rder, instead saved a life.
Sherlock: There are mysteries worth solving and stories worth telling.
Sherlock: The best and bravest man I know – and on top of that he actually knows how to do stuff.
Sherlock: ... except wedding planning and serviettes – he’s rubbish at those.
Watson: True!
Sherlock: The case itself remains the most ingenious and brilliantly-planned m*rder – or attempted m*rder – I’ve ever had the pleasure to encounter; the most perfect locked-room mystery of which I am aware. However, I’m not just here to praise John – I’m also here to embarrass him, so let’s move on to some ...
LESTRADE : No-no, wait, so how was it ... how was it done?
Sherlock: How was what done?
LESTRADE: The s*ab.
Sherlock: I’m afraid I don’t know. I didn’t solve that one. That’s ...  ... It can happen sometimes. It’s very ... very disappointing.
Sherlock: Embarrassment leads me on to the stag night. Of course there’s hours of material here, but I’ve cut it down to the really good bits.
FLASHBACK. An entry from John’s blog entitled, “The Mayfly Man” drifts across the screen. It starts, ‘We’d just returned from a quiet, civilised evening in the pub ...’ The entry fades from view and we’re in Molly’s lab at Bart’s.
MOLLY: m*rder scenes?
MOLLY: Locations of ... m*rder?
Sherlock: Mmmm, pub crawl – themed.
MOLLY: Yeah, but why-why can’t you just do Underground stations?
Sherlock: Lacks the personal touch. We’re going to go for a drink in every street where we ...
MOLLY : ... every street where you found a corpse! Delightful Where do I come in?
Sherlock: Don’t want to get ill. That would ruin it – spoil the mood.
MOLLY: You’re a graduate chemist. Can’t you just work it out?
Sherlock: I lack the practical experience.
MOLLY: Meaning you think I like a drink.
Sherlock: Occasionally.
MOLLY: That I’m a drunk.
Sherlock: No. No!
Sherlock: You look ... well.
MOLLY : I am.
Sherlock: How’s ...
Sherlock: ... Tom?
MOLLY: Not a sociopath.
Sherlock: Still? Good.
MOLLY : And we’re having quite a lot of sex.
Sherlock: Okay.
Sherlock: I want you to calculate John’s ideal intake, and mine, to remain in the sweet spot the whole evening.
Sherlock: Light-headed, good ...
with a photograph of John’s head posted over the original head.)
MOLLY: Urinating in wardrobes, bad.
Sherlock: Hmm.
PUB. Sherlock stands at the bar and looks at the barman.
Sherlock: Two, er ... beers, please.
BARMAN: Pints?
)
Sherlock: Four hundred and forty-three point seven millilitres.
Watson: Ah...
Watson: What, are we on a schedule?
Sherlock: You’ll thank me.
NEXT PUB. Sitting at a table in a bar, the boys clink their cylinders together and drink.
NEXT PUB. Standing at the bar, Sherlock drains his cylinder, grins widely, then delicately wipes his lip. He seems to be feeling the beer a little. John looks down into his own cylinder with perhaps a disappointed expression.
NEXT PUB. John takes a long pull on his drink, while Sherlock looks thoughtfully at the level of beer remaining in his own cylinder. They both turn and look down at Sherlock’s phone on the bar, then John puts his cylinder down and Sherlock bends to look at the level.
NEXT PUB. They clink their cylinders together again.
Watson: Cheers.
Sherlock: Cheers.
NEXT PUB. Sitting at a table, the boys drain their latest beers, grimace and then put the cylinders onto the table. This bar has loud music playing. John turns and looks all round the room. Sherlock points over John’s shoulder.
Sherlock: Over there.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: Toilets. Any second now, you’re going to ...
Watson: Hang on. Tell me after – I need the loo.
Sherlock: Mmm, on schedule.
Watson: Eh?
Sherlock: Nothing – go!
(John stumbles off, while Sherlock looks at his phone and pulls up his charts which will measure urine output against blood alcohol level. He updates the alcohol level chart and finishes it with a fancy flourish.
A little while later John returns to the table.)
Sherlock: How long?
Watson: Sorry?
Sherlock: Your visit.
Sherlock: Estimate approximate volume discharged ...
Watson: Stop talking now.
NEXT PUB. John is alone at the bar, and he takes a sh*t glass full of – presumably – whiskey from the barman.
Watson: Ooh, er ...
Watson: Quick, one more. He mustn’t see.
Watson: There you go.
Watson: Cheers.
NEXT PUB. Sherlock is plastered. In the smoking area outside the pub, he is loudly and drunkenly gesticulating and sounding off to a male customer over the very loud music.
Sherlock: I know ash!
Sherlock: Don’t – Tell – Me – I – Don’t!
Watson: Oh ...
Watson: All right, all right, enough!
Watson: Stand up.
Sherlock: Ashtrays. I know ashtrays.
All is silent. The camera pans slowly down a flight of stairs and reveals the boys lying on the steps. John is on his back by the wall with his arms folded; Sherlock is on his side facing the bannisters. Both of them have their eyes closed.
Sherlock: I have an international reputation.
Sherlock: Do you have an international reputation?
Watson: No, I don’t have an international reputation.
Sherlock: No.
Sherlock: And I can’t even remember what for.
Sherlock: Sss... Crime ... something or other.
MRS HUDSON: Ooh! What are you doing back? I thought you were going to be out late.
Sherlock: Ah, Hudders. What time is it?
MRS HUDSON: You’ve only been out two hours.
Later, they are upstairs, sitting in their armchairs in the living room, and are playing the Rizla Game. Rizlas are thin white pieces of paper, with glue along one of the long sides, which are used to roll up loose tobacco to form a cigarette. I won’t bother providing a link to explain the game itself because you’ll see how it works here. Sherlock has a Rizla paper stuck to his forehead. Written on it in John’s handwriting are the words “SHERLOCK HOLMES”. He looks blurrily across to John, who has a Rizla stuck to his own forehead which reads, in somewhat wobbly writing by Sherlock, “MADONNA”. John peers at him, apparently trying to keep his eyes open.
Watson: Am I a vegetable?
Sherlock: You, or the thing?
Watson: Funny!
Sherlock: Thank you.
Watson: Come on.
Sherlock: No, you’re not a vegetable.
Watson: It’s your go.
Sherlock: Errr ... am I human?
Watson: Sometimes.
Sherlock: Can’t have ‘sometimes’. Has to be, um ...
Watson: Yes, you’re human.
Sherlock: ... ‘yes’ or ‘no’. ... Okay.
Sherlock: And am I a man?
Watson: Yep.
Sherlock: Tall?
Watson: Not as tall as people think.
Sherlock: Hmm. Nice?
Watson: Ish.
Sherlock: Clever?
Watson: I’d say so.
Sherlock: You would?
Sherlock: Mmm, am I important?
Watson: To s-some people.
Sherlock: Do “people” ...  ... like me?
Watson: Er, no, they don’t. You tend to rub ’em up the wrong way.
Sherlock: Okay.
Sherlock: Am I the current king of England?
Watson: Are you ...?  You know we don’t have a king?
Sherlock: Don’t we?
Watson: No.
Sherlock: Your go.
Watson: I don’t mind.
Watson: Am I a woman?
Watson: What?
Sherlock: Yes.
Watson: Am I ... pretty?  This.
Sherlock: Err ... Er, beauty is a construct based entirely on childhood impressions, influences and role models.
Watson: Yeah, but am I a pretty lady?
Sherlock: I don’t know who you are. I don’t know who you’re supposed to be.
Watson: You picked the name!
Sherlock: Ah, but I picked it at random from the papers.
Watson: You’re not really getting the hang of this game, are you, Sherlock?
Sherlock: So I am human, I’m not as tall as people think I am ...
Sherlock: I’m-I’m nice-ish ...
Sherlock: ... clever, important to some people, but I tend to rub them up the wrong way.
Sherlock: Got it.
Watson: Go on, then.
Sherlock: I’m you, aren’t I?
MRS HUDSON: Ooh-ooh!
MRS HUDSON: Client!
Watson: Hallo.
Sherlock: Hallo!
Watson: Come on.
TESSA: Which one of you is Sherlock Holmes?
Shortly afterwards, the boys have removed the papers from their heads and have relocated to sit side by side on the sofa. Tessa sits on a dining chair facing them.
TESSA : I don’t ... a lot ... I mean, I don’t ... date all that much ...
TESSA: ... and ... he seemed ... nice, you know?
TESSA: We seemed to automatically connect. We had one night – dinner, such interesting conversation. It was ... lovely.
TESSA: To be honest, I’d love to have gone further ...
TESSA: ... but I thought, ‘No, this is special. Let’s take it slowly ...
TESSA: ... exchange numbers.’
TESSA: He said he’d get in touch and then ...
TESSA: Maybe he wasn’t quite as keen as I was ...
TESSA: ... but I – I just thought ...  ... at least he’d call to say that we were finished.
TESSA : I went round there, to his flat.
TESSA: No trace of him. Mr Holmes ...
TESSA : ... I honestly think I had dinner ... with a ghost.
TESSA: Mr Holmes?
TESSA : With a ghost, Mr Holmes!
Sherlock: Boring, boring, boring – no!
Sherlock: Fascinating!
Sherlock: John – John! Wake up!
Sherlock: Apologies about my ...  ... you know ... thing.
Sherlock: Rude. Rude!
TESSA: I checked with the landlord, and the man who lived there d*ed. Heart att*ck. And there we are, having dinner one week on.
TESSA: And I found this thing online, sort of chatroom thing ...
TESSA: ... for girls who think they’re dating men from the spirit world.
Sherlock: Don’t worry. I’ll find him in ten minutes.
Sherlock: What’s your dog’s name?
Watson: Yeah, I’m there if you want it.
Sherlock: John! Wake up!
Sherlock: We’re meant to ...  ... The game’s ...  ... something.
Watson: ... on.
Sherlock: Yeah, that, that!
TESSA : Okay!
LATER. In a living room elsewhere, Sherlock wobbles unsteadily in front of a large clear glass plate on a stand. The boys are in what looks like a warehouse conversion. It’s a large apartment with bare brick walls and a very high ceiling. The room is decorated with several pieces of modern furniture and art. Sherlock grins drunkenly at the glass plate, then straightens up a bit and looks around the room. He is currently kneeling on the sofa with his arms braced on its back. John stands nearby, leaning against a supporting pillar in the middle of the room.
Watson: Ohhh, it’s nice!
Watson: Nice place.
TESSA: See anything?
Sherlock: Hmm?
TESSA: Any clues, Mr Holmes?
Sherlock: Oh, errrrrr ...
(He looks blurrily down at the fancy coffee table and starts deducing:
designer
table
art?
He looks across to an armchair:
chair
seat
leather
sleeeeep
Moving on to a fancy-looking speaker:
thing
speaker
hi tech
thing
His eyes drift on to a painted animal skull on a stand ...
? death ?
skull
? deaded ?
... and then to a tall slender ornament on the window sill ...
wood ?
? pipe/tube/wotsit
thingamebob?
?
... and to a pale green egg chair ...
egg ?
chair?
sitty thing?
?
Still umming vaguely, he wanders over to the chair and looks more closely at it, then twirls around and his eyes settle in a rather unfocused way on Tessa and he deduces her:
nurse
? client ?
victim ?
cardigan
Scratching his head, he suddenly looks inspired. He grins at Tessa.)
Sherlock: I’m just gonna whip this out.
Sherlock: Mm-hmm?
TESSA : You all right?
Watson: Hmm? Yeah. He’s clueing.
TESSA: What?
Watson: He’s ... hmm? He’s clueing for looks.
TESSA: Mr Holmes?
TESSA : Mr Holmes?!
LANDLORD: I’m calling the police.
TESSA: Oh, no ...
Sherlock: Whoa, whoa, whoa!
TESSA: This is a famous detective. It’s Sherlock Holmes and his partner, John Hamish Watson.
Sherlock: What d’you think you’re doing? Don’t compromise the integrity of the ...
Watson: ... crime scene!
Sherlock: Yeah, that.
Close-up of John’s face. He is in a bright room somewhere. His heartbeat can be heard, and his gentle exhale sounds very loud. His eyes move behind his closed lids with a rasping sound. He screws up his eyes a couple of times, the movements making squelchy sounds, then he opens his eyes and blinks with a loud click. A door opens nearby and now we see that John is sitting on the floor of a white-tiled room with his back against the wall. He grimaces at the sound of the door.
LESTRADE : Wakey-wakey!
Watson: Oh my God.
Watson: Greg. Is that Greg?
LESTRADE: Get up. I’m gonna put you two in a taxi. Managed to square things with the desk sergeant.
LESTRADE: What a couple of lightweights! You couldn’t even make it to closing time!
Watson: Can you whisper?
LESTRADE : NOT REALLY!
LESTRADE: Come on.
POLICE STATION FRONT DESK. Grunting with the effort, Sherlock puts his coat back on. John tucks his wallet into his back pocket.
Watson: Well, thanks for a ... you know ...
Watson: ... an evening.
Sherlock: It was awful.
Watson: Yeah.
Watson: I was gonna pretend, but it was, truly.
Sherlock: That woman, Tessa.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: Dated a ghost. The most interesting case for months. What a wasted opportunity.
Watson: ... Okay.
Close-up of a glass of water. An effervescent antacid pill is dropped into it and starts to fizz as it dissolves. After a few seconds John sighs quietly, picks up the glass and drinks.
MRS HUDSON: How are you feeling?
Watson: Mmm.
MRS HUDSON: It’s just like old times, having you back here.
MRS HUDSON: Thought I’d make your favourite, one last time.
Watson: Mm. Don’t sound so ... final about it. I will be visiting, you know.
MRS HUDSON: Ooh, I’ve heard that one before!
Watson: Mm, no, it’s different now, though, isn’t it? It’s different to when we thought we’d lost him.
MRS HUDSON: Well, marriage changes everything, John.
Watson: Does it?
MRS HUDSON: Yeah.
MRS HUDSON: You might not think it, but it does.
MRS HUDSON: It’s a different phase in your life.
MRS HUDSON: You meet new people ’cause you’re a couple ...
Watson: Mmm.
MRS HUDSON: ... and then you just ... let your old friends slip away.
Watson: It won’t be like that.
MRS HUDSON: Well, if you’ve found the right one – the person that you click with – it’s the best thing in the world.
Watson: Well, I have. I know I have.
MRS HUDSON: Oh, I’m sure. She’s lovely!
Watson: Yeah. I think so. What about you?
MRS HUDSON: Me?
Watson: Did you think you’d found the right one when you married Mr Hudson?
MRS HUDSON : No! It was just a whirlwind thing for us. I knew it wouldn’t work, but I just got sort of swept along.
Watson: Right.
MRS HUDSON: And then we moved to Florida. We had a fantastic time, but of course I didn’t know what he was up to.  The drugs.
Watson: Drugs?
MRS HUDSON: He was running ... um, oh God, what d’you call it? Um, a ... cartel.
MRS HUDSON: Got in with a really bad crowd.
Watson: Right.
MRS HUDSON: And then I found out about all the other women. I didn’t have a clue! So, when he was actually arrested for bl*wing someone’s head off ...
MRS HUDSON: ... it was quite a relief, to be honest.
Watson: ... Right.
MRS HUDSON: It was purely physical between me and Frank. We couldn’t keep our hands off each other.
MRS HUDSON: I know: there was one night ...
Watson: Hang on – was that ... Sherlock?
MRS HUDSON: Is it?
Watson: That’s Sherlock.
Upstairs, Sherlock has an online news article on his laptop screen. It shows a photograph of Major Sholto before he was injured, and a large strapline beside the photo reads, “‘He destroyed us all. And he gets a medal for it.”’ A few visible lines of text above and below the photo show that this is an interview with Madeline Small, the mother of one of the soldiers who d*ed under Sholto’s command. The headline of the article reads, “V.C. Hero – The Unanswered Questions. Why did my boy have to die?”
Sherlock looks towards the living room door when he hears John climbing the stairs. He switches to a different tab on the laptop – the website for I DATED A GHOST.COM. John comes in and walks across to the dining table where Sherlock is sitting.
Sherlock: There are going to be others.
Watson: Others?
Sherlock: Victims, women. Most ghosts tend to haunt a single house – this ghost, however, is willing to commute, look.
Overhead view of a large Council Chamber. The room has wood panelling on the walls and a blue carpet. Banks of benches with red leather-covered seats form a semi-circle. There are six rows of these benches in tiers. At the front of the room on top of a high dais is a large ornate bench – reminiscent of a judge’s bench in a courtroom – behind which is a chair where the Chairman would sit. This chair is high above the chamber floor. The chamber is initially empty but then the perspective changes and Sherlock is standing in front of the closed door at the rear of the room, and many women are standing silently in front of seats all around the room. Sherlock walks down the steps towards the floor, looking around him as he goes, then he reaches the bottom, walks across towards the Chairman’s bench and turns to face the seats. There are at least forty-eight women standing around the room. Sherlock slowly scans all of them, then pulls a thoughtful face and points towards one of the women to his right.
Sherlock: Mmmmmm, not you.
Sherlock: Not you.
Sherlock: Not you.
Sherlock: Not you. Not you.
Sherlock: Hi.
WOMAN: Gail.
SECOND WOMAN: Charlotte.
THIRD WOMAN: Robyn.
FOURTH WOMAN: Vicky.
Sherlock: How did you meet?
GAIL: Came up to me in a pub.
CHARLOTTE: Same gym as me.
ROBYN: We just got chatting on the bus.
VICKY: Online.
Sherlock: Name?
GAIL: Told you.
Sherlock: His name.
GAIL: Oscar.
CHARLOTTE: Mike.
ROBYN: Terry.
VICKY: Um, “love_monkey.”
Sherlock: Your place?
ALL FOUR WOMEN : His place.
Sherlock: Address?
GAIL: Nothing happened. It was just ... very romantic.
Sherlock: Four women in four nights. He must have something special.
GAIL: He was very charming.
CHARLOTTE: He listened.
ROBYN: He was sweet.
VICKY: He had a lovely ...
Watson: You okay?
Watson: Let your food go cold. Mrs Hudson’ll play hell.
Sherlock: Not now, John.
(Unbuttoning his jacket, he squats down to the coffee table and types onto the laptop which is showing Vicky’s message. The screen is on the website I DATED A GHOST.COM and he and Vicky are talking on its forum. His message comes up reading, “Sherlock: Sorry about that.”
Back in the Council Chamber, Sherlock’s hand is raised to Vicky but now he lowers it.)
Sherlock: Sorry about that.
VICKY: He had a lovely manner.
Sherlock: Different names, different addresses.
Sherlock: Describe him.
GAIL: Short blond hair.
CHARLOTTE: Dark hair – long.
ROBYN: Ginger.  I like gingers.
VICKY: Couldn’t tell.
VICKY : He had a mask on.
(Sherlock looks away.
Without transition he is standing at the side of the Chairman’s bench, holding a newspaper and quickly turning the pages until he reaches the Obituaries page.)
Sherlock: He’s stealing the identity of corpses ...
Sherlock: ... getting the names from the Obituary columns.
Sherlock: All single men. He’s using the d*ad man’s flat under the assumption it’ll be empty for a while.
Sherlock: Free love nest.
GAIL : I feel sick.
ROBYN: It’s gruesome.
CHARLOTTE: That’s awful.
VICKY : Clever!
TESSA: Bastard!
(Sherlock – now standing in front of the women again – turns his head to see that Tessa is now standing between Charlotte and Robyn.
In 221B, Sherlock’s head turns at a beep from another laptop lying on one of the dining chairs. He goes across to it, where Tessa’s message on the forum reads, “TESSA: BASTARD!” He types onto that computer and his message appears reading, “Sherlock: Hello Tessa”.
In the Council Chamber, Sherlock greets her. She’s wearing casual clothes and a long cardigan.)
Sherlock: Hello, Tessa.
Sherlock: Meanwhile, back to business. No-one wants to use a d*ad man’s home.
Sherlock: ... Least not until it’s been cleared. So, he disguises himself, steals the man’s home, steals his identity.
Watson: But only for one night.
Watson: Then he’s gone.
Sherlock: He’s not a ghost, John. He’s a mayfly. He lives for a day.
Sherlock: So – what was it he was looking for?
Sherlock: Job.
GAIL: Gardener.
CHARLOTTE: Cook.
TESSA : Private nurse.
ROBYN: I do security work.
VICKY : Maid.
Sherlock: Obvious. You all work for the same person!
Sherlock: No, not the same employer. Damn.
Sherlock: Come on. We can do this.
Sherlock: Ideal night out.
GAIL: Clay pigeon sh**ting.
CHARLOTTE: Line dancing.
TESSA : Pictures?
ROBYN: Wine in front of the telly.
VICKY : Dungeon.
Sherlock: Make-up.
GAIL: Clarins.
CHARLOTTE: No. 7.
TESSA: Maybelline.
ROBYN: Nothing special.
VICKY: Whatever’s cheap.
Sherlock: Perfume.
GAIL: Chanel.
CHARLOTTE: Chanel.
TESSA: Chanel.
ROBYN: Chanel.
VICKY: Estée Lauder.
Sherlock: Ideal man?
TESSA : George Clooney?
Sherlock: Oh, no.
GAIL: Home-loving.
CHARLOTTE: He’d have to like cuddling.
ROBYN: Caring.
VICKY: Ten things.  One: someone who isn’t competitive with other men.
VICKY : Two: someone who isn’t constantly trying to define himself by his masculinity ...
Sherlock: There’s a unifying factor. There has to be.
Sherlock: None of you reported anything stolen.
Sherlock: Security guard, gardener, cook, maid, private nurse. He’s romancing his way up a pecking order, somebody’s pecking order.
Sherlock: Come on, think.
Sherlock: Unless ...
Sherlock: Do you have a secret you’ve never told anyone?
ALL FIVE WOMEN : No.
Sherlock: Gotcha.
Watson: What d’you mean?
Sherlock: Everyone has secrets, and they all replied too quickly.
GAIL : Gotta go.
CHARLOTTE: See ya.
Sherlock: No!
ROBYN: Bye-bye.
Sherlock: Wait!
VICKY: Sorry, sexy.  Some secrets have to stay secret.
TESSA : Enjoy the wedding.
(Sherlock makes an exasperated sound as she walks away.
In 221B, Sherlock shuts down the lid on Tessa’s laptop and straightens up.)
Sherlock: Why? Why would he date all of those women and not return their calls?
Watson: You’re missing the obvious, mate.
Sherlock: Am I?
Watson: He’s a man.
Sherlock: But why would he change his identity?
Watson: Maybe he’s married.
Sherlock: Ohh.
RECEPTION.
Sherlock: Married. Obvious, really. Our Mayfly Man was trying to escape the suffocating chains of domesticity ...
Sherlock: ... and instead of endless nights in, watching the telly, or going to barbecues with awful dreadful boring people he couldn’t stand, he used his wits, cleverness and powers of disguise ...  ... to play the field. He was ...
Sherlock: On second thoughts I probably should have told you about the Elephant in the Room. However, it does help to further illustrate how invaluable John is to me. I can read a crime scene the way he can understand a human being. I used to think that’s what made me special – quite frankly, I still do. But a word to the wise: should any of you require the services of either of us, I will solve your m*rder, but it takes John Watson to save your life. Trust me on that – I should know. He’s saved mine so many times, and in so many ways.
Sherlock: This blog is the story of two men and their frankly ridiculous adventures ...
Sherlock: ... of m*rder, mystery and mayhem. But from now on, there’s a new story – a bigger adventure.
Sherlock: Ladies and gentlemen, pray charge your glasses and be upstanding.
Sherlock: Today begin the adventures of Mary Elizabeth Watson and John Hamish Watson.
Sherlock: The two reasons why every single one of us is ...
(He stops, freezing in place, staring blindly towards the guests. The photographer snaps several photos of him but the popping flashbulb doesn’t make him react. Sherlock’s fingers loosen slightly and his champagne glass slips out of them and begins a very slow-motion tumble towards the floor.
In the Council Chamber, Sherlock – now in his wedding gear – lowers his raised hand and turns towards the five uniformed women.)
Sherlock: What did you say?
Sherlock: You said, “John Hamish Watson.” You said that. You said, “Hamish.”
Sherlock: ... whoa, whoa!
TESSA : This is a famous detective. It’s Sherlock Holmes and his partner, John Hamish Watson.
Sherlock: How did you know? How did you know his middle name?  He never tells anyone. He hates it.
FLASHBACK. Sherlock, with at least ten unlit cigarettes stuffed in his mouth, walks across the living room of 221B. Walking past John, who is sitting at the dining table facing the windows and typing on his laptop, he frowns down at the screen and takes the cigarettes out of his mouth. He turns his back on John as he walks into his line of sight so that John can’t see the cigarettes.
Sherlock: “John H. Watson”?
Watson: Yep.
ANOTHER DAY. The boys are sitting at the kitchen table. John is reading the paper.
Sherlock: Henry?
Watson: Shut up.
ANOTHER DAY. Sherlock looks up from his microscope at the kitchen table and turns his head to where John is sitting in his armchair reading.
Sherlock: Humphrey?
Watson: Shut up.
ANOTHER DAY. Buttoning his jacket, Sherlock walks out of his bedroom and stops outside the door to the bathroom. The shower is running inside.
Sherlock: Higgins?
Watson: Go. Away.
THE PRESENT. COUNCIL CHAMBER.
Sherlock: Took him years to confide in me.
FLASHBACK. John walks up the stairs of 221 carrying bags of shopping. Sighing tiredly, he walks into the living room where Sherlock is standing just to the left of the door with a piece of paper in his hands. John glances at it as he walks past, then stops and backs up.
Watson: That’s my birth certificate.
Sherlock: Yep.
THE PRESENT. COUNCIL CHAMBER. Sherlock looks quizzically at Tessa, then turns and walks towards the Chairman’s bench.
Sherlock: And The Woman – she knew.
FLASHBACK to Irene Adler and Sherlock having eyesex in the living room of 221B during the events of “A Scandal in Belgravia”.
Watson: Hamish.
Watson: John Hamish Watson – just if you were looking for baby names.
COUNCIL CHAMBER.
Sherlock: God knows where she is.
Sherlock: Out of my head. I am busy.
Sherlock: There’s only one time that name’s been made public.
FLASHBACK. A mock-up of the wedding invitation is on the screen of a laptop. The top part reads:
Dr John Hamish WATSON & Miss Mary Elizabeth MORSTAN
Request the pleasure of your company
at their marriage
John points at the screen.
Watson: Does it have to be on the invitation?
MARY: It’s your name.
MARY: It’s traditional.
Sherlock: It’s funny.
TESSA : Enjoy the wedding.
At the reception, Sherlock’s glass continues its ultra-slow-motion fall towards the floor.
In the Council Chamber, Tessa smiles brightly at Sherlock.
TESSA: Enjoy the wedding.
Sherlock: The wedding. You knew about the wedding; more importantly, you’d seen a wedding invitation. Now barely a hundred people had seen that invitation. The Mayfly Man only saw five women. For one person to be in both groups ...  ... could be a coincidence.
MYCROFT : Oh, Sherlock.
MYCROFT: What do we say about coincidence?
Sherlock: The universe is rarely so lazy.
MYCROFT: So, the balance of probability is ...?
Sherlock: Someone went to great lengths to find out something about this wedding.
MYCROFT: What great lengths?
Sherlock: They lied, assumed false identities.
MYCROFT: Which suggests ...?
Sherlock: Criminal intent.
MYCROFT: Also suggests ...?
Sherlock: Intelligence, planning.
MYCROFT: Clearly. But more importantly ...?
The champagne glass continues its fall.
Sherlock: The Mayfly Man.
The champagne glass continues downwards.
Sherlock: The Mayfly Man is ...
Sherlock: ... here today.
Sherlock: Ooh, sorry. I ...
MASTER OF CEREMONIES: Another glass, sir?
Sherlock: Thank you, yes. Thank you, yes.
MYCROFT : Something is going to happen – right here.
Sherlock: Now, where were we?
MYCROFT : Could be any second.
MYCROFT : You have control of the room.
Sherlock: Ah, yes. Raising glasses and standing up. Very good. Thank you.
MYCROFT : Don’t lose it.
Sherlock: And down again.
Sherlock: Ladies and gentlemen, people tell you not to milk a good speech – get off early, leave ’em laughing. Wise advice I’ll certainly try to bear in mind. But for now ...
Sherlock: ... part two.
Sherlock: Part two is more action-based. I’m gonna ... walk around, shake things up a bit.
Sherlock: Who’d go to a wedding? That’s the question. Who would bother to go to any lengths to get themselves to a wedding?
Sherlock: Well, everyone.
Sherlock: Weddings are great! Love a wedding.
MARY : What’s he doing?
Watson: Something’s wrong.
Sherlock: And John’s great, too! Haven’t said that enough. Barely scratched the surface. I could go on all night about the depth and complexity of his ... jumpers ...
Sherlock: ... and he can cook. Does ... a ... thing ... thing with peas ...
Sherlock: ... once. Might not be peas. Might not be him. But he’s got a great singing voice ... or somebody does.
Sherlock: Ahh, too many, too many, too many, too many!
Sherlock: Sorry. Too many jokes about John! Now, er ...
MYCROFT: Criminal intent.
Sherlock: Where was I? Ah, yes ...
MYCROFT : Extraordinary lengths.
Sherlock: Speech!  Speech.  Let’s talk about ...
MYCROFT : All of which is suggestive of ...?
Sherlock: ... m*rder.
Sherlock: Sorry, did I say ‘m*rder’? I meant to say ‘marriage’ – but, you know, they’re quite similar procedures when you think about it. The participants tend to know each other, and it’s over when one of them’s d*ad.
Sherlock: In fairness, m*rder is a lot quicker, though. Janine!
Sherlock: What about this one? Acceptably hot?  More importantly, his girlfriend’s wearing brand-new uncomfortable underwear ...  ... and hasn’t bothered to pick this thread off the top of his jacket ...  ... or point out the grease smudge on the back of his neck. Currently, he’s going home alone.
Sherlock: Also, he’s a comics and sci-fi geek. They’re always tremendously grateful – really put the hours in.
Sherlock: Geoff, the gents.
Sherlock: The loos, now, please.
LESTRADE: It’s Greg.
Sherlock: The loos, please.
LESTRADE : Why?
Sherlock: Oh, I don’t know. Maybe it’s your turn.
(He jerks his head towards the door again, grimacing. Greg looks at his phone and the new text message which reads:
Lock this place down.
LESTRADE: Yeah, actually, now you mention it ...
Watson: Sherlock, any chance of a – an end date for this speech? Gotta cut the cake.
Sherlock: Oh! Ladies and gentlemen, can’t stand it when I finally get the chance to speak for once, Vatican Cameos.
MARY: What did he say? What’s that mean?
Watson: Battle stations. Someone’s gonna die.
MARY: What?!
MYCROFT : Narrow it down.
MYCROFT : Narrow it down.
MYCROFT : Narrow. It. Down.
Sherlock: No!
Sherlock: : No!
Sherlock: Not you! Not you!
Sherlock: You.
Sherlock: It’s always you. John Watson, you keep me right.
Watson: What do I do?
Sherlock: Well, you’ve already done it. Don’t solve the m*rder.  Save the life.
Sherlock: Sorry. Off-piste a bit. Back now.  Phew!
Sherlock: Let’s play a game.
Sherlock: Let’s play m*rder.
MRS HUDSON : Sherlock.
Sherlock: Imagine someone’s going to get m*rder at a wedding. Who exactly would you pick?
MRS HUDSON: I think you’re a popular choice at the moment, dear.
Sherlock: If someone could move Mrs Hudson’s glass just slightly out of reach, that would be lovely. More importantly, who could you only k*ll at a wedding?
Sherlock: Most people you can k*ll any old place. As a mental exercise, I’ve often planned the m*rder of friends and colleagues.
Sherlock: Now John I’d poison.
Sherlock: Sloppy eater – d*ad easy. I’ve given him chemicals and compounds – that way, he’s never even noticed. He missed a whole Wednesday once, didn’t have a clue. Lestrade’s so easy to k*ll, it’s a miracle no-one’s succumbed to the temptation.  I’ve got a pair of keys to my brother’s house – I could easily break in there and asphyxiate him.
Sherlock: ... if, if the whim arose.
TOM : He’s pissed, isn’t he?
TOM : Ow!
Sherlock: So, once again, who could you only k*ll here?
Sherlock: Clearly it’s a rare opportunity, so it’s someone who doesn’t get out much.
Sherlock: Someone for whom a planned social encounter known about months in advance is an exception. Has to be a unique opportunity.
Sherlock: And since k*lling someone in public is difficult ...
Sherlock: ... k*lling them in private isn’t an option. Someone who lives in an inaccessible or unknown location, then.
Sherlock: Someone private, perhaps, obsessed with personal security.
Sherlock: Possibly someone under thr*at.
FLASHBACK. 221B LIVING ROOM.
Sherlock: Major James Sholto. Who he?
MARY: I don’t think he’s coming.
Watson: He’ll be there.
FLASHBACK. EARLIER AT THE RECEPTION.
Watson: Where are you living these days?
SHOLTO: Oh, way out in the middle of nowhere.
FLASHBACK. ON THE PARK BENCH OUTSIDE THE BARRACKS.
Watson: The press and the families gave him hell. He gets more death thr*at than you.
At the reception, everyone is back in the room. Sherlock tries to act nonchalantly as he walks over to a nearby table and picks up one of the name cards on it while pulling a pen on a chain from his waistcoat.
Sherlock: Ooh! A recluse, small household staff.
FLASHBACK TO THE COUNCIL CHAMBER.
Sherlock: Job.
GAIL: Gardener.
CHARLOTTE: Cook.
TESSA: Private nurse.
VICKY: Maid.
Sherlock: High turnover for additional security.
FLASHBACK TO THE COUNCIL CHAMBER.
ROBYN: I do security work.
Sherlock: Probably all signed confidentiality agreements.
FLASHBACK TO THE COUNCIL CHAMBER.
Sherlock: Do you have a secret you’ve never told anyone?
ALL THE WOMEN : No.
Sherlock: There is another question that remains, however – a big one, a huge one: how would you do it? How would you k*ll someone in public?
(Sholto picks up the name card and looks at the writing on it. It reads:
IT’S YOU
Sherlock: There has to be a way. This has been planned.
ARCHIE : Mr Holmes! Mr Holmes!
Sherlock: Oh, hello again, Archie.  What’s your theory? Get this right and there’s a headless nun in it for you.
ARCHIE: The invisible man could do it.
Sherlock: The who, the what, the why, the when, the where?
ARCHIE: The invisible man with the invisible Kn*fe. The one who tried to k*ll the Guardsman.
(Sherlock gasps and straightens up, his eyes wide. In his mind he’s standing in front of his information wall at 221B, looking at all the wedding plans stuck up behind the sofa. He zooms in on a wedding invitation pinned to the wall, announcing the wedding at St Mary’s Church, Sutton Mallet on Saturday 18th May at 12 o’clock and after.
He moves to look at his list of things to do and focuses on the word “Venue”. There’s a brief sh*t of the outside of the reception room. He looks at the word “Venue” again and this time sees an image of the barracks and soldiers parading outside.
He shifts his focus to the word “Plan” and then sees a close-up of Private Bainbridge standing on guard outside the barracks, his gaze fixed on the three tourists over the road as they walk away and reveal the stalker.
Sherlock moves his eyes to look at the word “Rehearsal”. In flashback, the Duty Sergeant walks into the shower room and raps on the cubicle door, calling Bainbridge’s name before he sees the slumped body and bloodstained water.
Sherlock zooms in on the word “Rehearsal”. He grimaces.)
Sherlock: Oh, not just planned. Planned and rehearsed.
Sherlock: Ladies and gentlemen, there will now be a short interlude.
Sherlock: The bride and groom!
GUESTS: The bride and groom.
Sherlock: Major Sholto’s going to be be m*rder. I don’t know how or by whom, but it’s going to happen.
Sherlock: ’Scuse me, coming through!
Sherlock: Consulting!
Watson: Stay here.
MARY: Please be careful.
Watson: ’Scuse me. Coming through! ’Scuse me.
MARY : Sorry, one more. Whoops! So sorry! Thank you!
Upstairs, Major Sholto opens the door to his bedroom and walks in. He lays his sword on the bed and then undoes the zip around his suitcase. Lifting the lid and laying it back, he picks up a folded shirt on the top of the contents and puts it down inside the lid. On top of the rest of his clothing is a large p*stol. He picks it up.
Downstairs, on a half-landing partway up the staircase, Sherlock stands with the tips of his fingers against his temples and his eyes screwed closed. John paces impatiently beside him.
Watson: How can you not remember which room? You remember everything.
Sherlock: I have to delete something!
MARY: Two oh seven.
Sherlock: Major Sholto? Major Sholto!
Sherlock: Major Sholto!
SHOLTO : If someone’s about to make an attempt on my life, it won’t be the first time. I’m ready.
Watson: Major, let us in.
MARY: Kick the door down.
SHOLTO: I really wouldn’t. I have a g*n in my hand and a lifetime of unfortunate reflexes.
Sherlock: You’re not safe in there. Whoever’s after you, we know that a locked room doesn’t stop him.
SHOLTO: “The invisible man with the invisible Kn*fe.”
Sherlock: I don’t know how he does it, so I can’t stop him, and that means he’ll do it again.
SHOLTO : Solve it, then.
Sherlock: I – I’m sorry?
SHOLTO: You’re the famous Mr Holmes. Solve the case. On you go.
SHOLTO: Tell me how he did it and I’ll open the door.
Watson: Please, this is no time for games. Just let us in! You’re in danger!
SHOLTO: So are you, so long as you’re here.
SHOLTO: Please, leave me. Despite my reputation, I really don’t approve of collateral damage.
MARY : Solve it.
Sherlock: Sorry?
MARY: Solve it, and he’ll open the door, like he said.
Sherlock: If I couldn’t solve it before, how can I solve it now?
MARY: Because it matters now.
Sherlock: What are you talking about?  What’s she talking about? Get your wife under control.
Watson: She’s right.
Sherlock: Oh, you’ve changed!
Watson: No, she is.  Shut up. You are not a puzzle-solver – you never have been. You’re a drama queen.
Watson: Now, there is a man in there about to die.  “The game is on.”  Solve it!
(Sherlock bares his teeth at him, then his eyes suddenly snap upwards. He can see Private Bainbridge in full uniform standing at attention against a white background. Bainbridge rotates as if standing on a turntable, and Sherlock’s vision zooms in to the man’s white webbing belt.
The image changes to Major Sholto in his dress uniform rotating on the invisible turntable, and again the view zooms in on his white webbing belt.
Sherlock then recalls the waiter in the kitchen downstairs reaching down to take hold of the skewer pushed through the middle of the joint of beef.
In the shower room at the barracks, Bainbridge unclips his belt.
The waiter slowly begins to pull the skewer out of the joint.
Bainbridge unwraps his belt from around his waist.
The skewer comes free of the joint, and blood and juice stream out of the hole.
Bainbridge stumbles slightly, looking uncomfortable.
Blood continues to pour from the hole in the beef joint.
The duty sergeant knocks on the door of the shower cubicle, calling Bainbridge’s name. Bainbridge is slumped on the floor inside and bloodstained water pours out under the door.)
Sherlock: Though, in fairness, he’s a drama queen too.
MARY: Yeah, I know.
Sherlock: Major Sholto, no one’s coming to k*ll you. I’m afraid you’ve already been k*lled several hours ago.
SHOLTO: What did you say?
Sherlock: Don’t take off your belt.
SHOLTO: My belt?
Sherlock: His belt, yes. Bainbridge was s*ab hours before we even saw him, but it was through his belt.
Sherlock: Tight belt, worn high on the waist. Very easy to push a small blade through the fabric and you wouldn’t even feel it.
Watson: The-the belt would bind the flesh together when it was tied tight ...
Sherlock: Exactly.
Watson: ... and when you took it off ...
Sherlock: Delayed action s*ab. All the time in the world to create an alibi.
Sherlock: Major Sholto?
SHOLTO: So – I was to be k*lled by my uniform. How appropriate.
MARY: He solved the case, Major. You’re supposed to open the door now. A deal is a deal.
SHOLTO: I’m not even supposed to have this any more. They gave me special dispensation to keep it. I couldn’t imagine life out of this uniform. I suppose – given the circumstances – I don’t have to.
SHOLTO: When so many want you d*ad, it hardly seems good manners to argue.
Watson: Whatever you’re doing in there, James, stop it, right now. I will kick this door down.
SHOLTO: Mr Holmes, you and I are similar, I think.
Sherlock: Yes, I think we are.
SHOLTO: There’s a proper time to die, isn’t there?
Sherlock: Of course there is.
SHOLTO: And one should embrace it when it comes – like a soldier.
Sherlock: Of course one should, but not at John’s wedding. We wouldn’t do that, would we – you and me? We would never do that to John Watson.
Watson: I’m gonna break it down.
MARY: No, wait, wait, you won’t have to.
Watson: Hmm?
SHOLTO: I believe I am in need of medical attention.
Watson: I believe I am your doctor.
EVENING. An orchestral rendition of the waltz “On The Beautiful Blue Danube” by Johann Strauss II can be heard. In the foyer of the wedding venue, Sherlock and Janine are waltzing alone. Sherlock is counting time.
Sherlock: One, two, three; der, der, der ... Ahh, pretty good.
JANINE: Ooh!
Sherlock: Just ... hold your nerve on your turning.
JANINE : Why do we have to rehearse?
Sherlock: Because we are about to dance together in public, and your skills are appalling!
JANINE: Well, you’re a good teacher.
Sherlock: Mmm.
JANINE: And you’re a brilliant dancer.
Sherlock: I’ll let you in on something, Janine.
JANINE : Go on, then.
Sherlock: I love dancing. I’ve always loved it.
JANINE: Seriously?
Sherlock: Watch out.
JANINE: Ooh! Woah!
Sherlock: Never really comes up in crime work but, um, you know, I live in hope of the right case.
JANINE : I wish you weren’t ...
JANINE: ... whatever it is you are.
Sherlock: I know.
Watson: Well, glad to see you’ve pulled, Sherlock, what with m*rder running riot at my wedding.
Sherlock: One m*rder... – one nearly m*rder.  Loves to exaggerate. You should try living with him.
LESTRADE: Sherlock?  Got him for you.
Sherlock: Ah, the photographer. Excellent!  Thank you.
Sherlock: Er, may I have a look at your camera?
PHOTOGRAPHER: Er ...  ... what’s this about? I was halfway home!
Sherlock: You should have driven faster.
Sherlock: Ah, yes. Yes, very good. There, you see?  Perfect.
LESTRADE: What is? You gonna tell us?
Sherlock: Try looking yourself.
Watson: Um, look for what?
Watson: Is the m*rder in these photographs?
Sherlock: It’s not what’s in the photographs; it’s what’s not in them – not in any of them.
Watson: Sherlock? The showing-off thing: we’ve discussed it before.
Sherlock: There is always a man at a wedding who is not in any photograph but can go anywhere, and even carry an equipment bag around with him if he likes, and you never even see his face.  You only ever see ...
.)
Sherlock: ... the camera.
PHOTOGRAPHER: What are you doing? What is this?
Sherlock: Jonathan Small, today’s substitute wedding photographer – known to us as the Mayfly Man. His brother was one of the raw recruits k*lled in that incursion. Jonny sought revenge on Sholto, worked his way through Sholto’s staff, found what he needed ...
Sherlock: ... an invitation to a wedding – the one time Sholto would have to be out in public. So, he made his plan ...
Sherlock: ... and rehearsed the m*rder ...
Sherlock: ... making sure of every last detail.
(Standing behind Sholto, Small holds his shoulder with one hand and puts his other hand down to the back of his belt. We can’t see what he’s holding but we hear a sharp noise as the spring-loaded slender blade sh**t through the belt and into Sholto’s back.
Outside the barracks, still holding his phone up with one hand, Small stands slightly behind Bainbridge and we hear the sharp noise of the blade s*ab through the Guardsman’s belt. Bainbridge jolts slightly and blinks.
At the sh**t, Sholto sways slightly and looks a little uncomfortable. Small glares m*rder at him from behind, withdraws his hand and then puts it into his jacket’s inside breast pocket, tucking the blade out of sight.
At the barracks, Small walks away from Bainbridge.
At the sh**t, Small gives Sholto one last glare from behind, then walks forward to his camera.)
Sherlock: Brilliant, ruthless, almost certainly a monomaniac – though, in fairness, his photographs are actually quite good.
Sherlock: Everything you need’s on that. You probably ought to ... arrest him or something.
JANINE: Do you always carry handcuffs?
Sherlock: Down, girl.
MARY : Come on, quick!
SMALL: It’s not me you should be arresting, Mr Holmes.
Sherlock: Oh, I don’t do the arresting.  I just farm that out.
SMALL: Sholto – he’s the k*ller, not me. I should have k*lled him quicker.
SMALL: I shouldn’t have tried to be clever.
Sherlock: You should have driven faster.
LESTRADE: Right ...
In the reception room, the tables have been cleared away. Looking into each other’s eyes, Mary and John are dancing a slow waltz in the middle of the room to the sound of a single violin while all the guests stand around the edge of the room and watch them. On a low stage at the end of the room Sherlock is playing his violin. The tune is the same one we heard at the beginning of the episode. He sways gently as he plays, his eyes fixed on the newlyweds. As the tune draws to an end, John shifts one hand to Mary’s back, holds her by the waist with the other and starts to dip her backwards. Mary gasps.
MARY: Really?!
JANINE: Yeah!
Sherlock: Ladies and gentlemen, just, er, one last thing before the evening begins properly. Apologies for earlier. A crisis arose and was dealt with.
Sherlock: More importantly, however, today we saw two people make vows. I’ve never made a vow in my life, and after tonight I never will again. So, here in front of you all, my first and last vow. Mary and John: whatever it takes, whatever happens, from now on I swear I will always be there, always, for all three of you.
Sherlock: Er, I’m sorry, I mean, I mean two of you. All two of you. Both of you, in fact. I’ve just miscounted.
Sherlock: Anyway, it’s time for dancing.  Play the music again, please, thank you.
” starts to play.)
Sherlock: Okay, everybody, just dance. Don’t be shy!
Sherlock: Dancing, please!
Sherlock: Very good!
Sherlock: Sorry, that was one more deduction than I was really expecting.
MARY: “Deduction”?
Sherlock: Increased appetite ...
MARY : Starving.
Sherlock: ... change of taste perception ...
MARY : Urgh. I chose this wine. It’s bloody awful.
Sherlock: ... and you were sick this morning. You assumed it was just wedding nerves. You got angry with me when I mentioned it to you. All the signs are there.
MARY: “The signs”?
Sherlock: The signs of three.
MARY: What?!
Sherlock: Mary, I think you should do a pregnancy test.
Sherlock: W... th... the statistics for the first trimester are ...
Watson: Shut up.
Watson: Just ... shut up.
Sherlock: Sorry.
Watson: How did he notice before me? I’m a bloody doctor.
Sherlock: It’s your day off.
Watson: It’s your day off!
Sherlock: Stop-stop panicking.
Watson: I’m not panicking.
MARY: I’m pregnant – I’m panicking.
Sherlock: Don’t panic. None of you panic.
Sherlock: Absolutely no reason to panic.
Watson: Oh, and you’d know, of course?
Sherlock: Yes, I would. You’re already the best parents in the world. Look at all the practice you’ve had!
Watson: What practice?
Sherlock: Well, you’re hardly gonna need me around now that you’ve got a real baby on the way.
Watson: You all right?
MARY : Yeah.
Sherlock: Dance.
Watson: Mm?
Sherlock: Both of you, now, go dance. We can’t just stand here. People will wonder what we’re talking about.
Watson: Right.
MARY: And what about you?
Watson: Well, we can’t all three dance. There are limits!
Sherlock: Yes, there are.
MARY: Come on, husband. Let’s go.
Watson: This isn’t a waltz, is it?
Sherlock: Don’t worry, Mary, I have been tutoring him.
Watson: He did, you know. Baker Street, behind closed curtains.
Watson: Mrs Hudson came in one time. Don’t know how those rumours started!
(He sniggers. Giggling, she puts her left hand on his shoulder and they dance off into the crowd. Looking over John’s shoulder, Mary smiles at Sherlock and mouths what may be a ‘thank you’. He smiles, then nods to her. As his friends dance away, he lowers his eyes, then slowly turns and looks at everybody dancing all around him, keeping his head lowered as if trying not to meet anyone’s eyes. He looks very lost and alone in the middle of the crowd. After a few moments, however, he seems to have a thought and lifts his head, still looking around but now with more intent. Eventually he sees Janine dancing some distance away. She is wearing his buttonhole flower pinned to the top of her dress. She looks across the room and smiles at him. Returning her smile he starts to walk towards her and she lifts her hand and points to her right with her thumb up, grinning happily. Sherlock stops as he realises that she’s dancing with the “comics and sci-fi geek” he had recommended to her earlier. She turns away and continues to dance with her new friend. Sherlock looks reflective for a few seconds, then turns towards the stage.
On the music stand is the hand-written music he played for the newlyweds. In the top right-hand corner is written:
Waltz,
for Mary & John
by
Sherlock Holmes
Sherlock picks up the music and folds it into an envelope, which he puts onto the stand. Written on the envelope is:
Dr. and Mrs Watson
Leaving the stage he walks slowly through the guests. Molly, dancing with Tom and Mrs Hudson, looks across the room and watches him for a few seconds, then turns back to the others.)LADY SMALLWOOD : Mr Magnussen, please state your full name for the record.
MAGNUSSEN : Charles Augustus Magnussen.
LADY SMALLWOOD: Mr Magnussen, how would you describe your influence over the Prime Minister?
MAGNUSSEN: The British Prime Minister?
LADY SMALLWOOD: Any of the British Prime Ministers you have known.
MAGNUSSEN: I never had the slightest influence over any of them. Why would I?
LADY SMALLWOOD : I notice you’ve had ... seven meetings at Downing Street this year.  Why?
MAGNUSSEN: Because I was invited.
LADY SMALLWOOD: Can you recall the subjects under discussion?
MAGNUSSEN: Not without being more indiscreet than I believe is appropriate.
GARVIE: Do you think it right that a newspaper proprietor, a private individual and, in fact, a foreign national should have such regular access to our Prime Minister?
(While he has been speaking, Magnussen has picked up his glasses and put them on. As soon as Garvie comes into focus, information appears in front of Magnussen’s eyes in a white font:
JOHN GARVIE
MP ROCKWELL SOUTH
ADULTERER
REFORMED ALCOHOLIC
p*rn PREFERENCE: NORMAL
FINANCES: 41% DEBT
STATUS UNIMPORTANT
then, in red underneath:
PRESSURE POINT: >
The last line flashes momentarily.)
MAGNUSSEN: I don’t think it’s wrong that a private individual should accept an invitation.
(The line stops flashing and adds further information:
PRESSURE POINT: >
DISABLED DAUGHTER
MAGNUSSEN: However, you have my sincere apologies for being foreign.
GARVIE: That’s not what I meant. That is not in any way ...
LADY SMALLWOOD : Mr Magnussen, can you recall an occasion when your remarks could have influenced government policy or the Prime Minister’s thinking in any way?
LADY ELIZABETH SMALLWOOD
MARRIED
SOLVENT
FORMER GYMNAST
p*rn PREFERENCE: NONE
VICES: NONE
and, in red underneath:
PRESSURE POINT: >SEARCHING
The line flashes for a moment.
Magnussen takes off his glasses and reaches for a small cloth on the table.)
MAGNUSSEN: No.
LADY SMALLWOOD: Are you sure?
(Magnussen pauses while he cleans the lenses on his glasses and then puts them on again. He looks at Lady Smallwood and the information about her reappears in front of his eyes. The basic details about her then disappear leaving just the red line which is no longer flashing and now reads:
PRESSURE POINT: >
HUSBAND
MAGNUSSEN : I have an excellent memory.
DUSK. Ornate electronic gates open across a wide drive, and a black car bearing the licence plate 1 CAM drives through and progresses along the drive which curves across the centre of a small lake. At the end of the drive is a large beautiful and almost futuristic-looking house with tall windows and curved walls. At the house, a man in a suit opens the door to Magnussen and he walks into an opulent-looking hall which has walls that are part bare pale grey brick and part plastered in white. The floor is a pale colour and glass panels line the staircases. Magnussen walks downstairs, passing a kitchen which is all pale brown tiling and stainless steel. He progresses to a glass wall with a glass door in it which leads into a room – possibly a study – which has a table inside on which are some slender and strange-looking ornaments. He goes in and walks across to a double set of wooden doors. He pauses for a moment, then opens them.
He walks down a light brown wooden spiral staircase, again lined with glass panels. Further down, the spiral staircase becomes narrower and is now made of light grey metal. The stairs lead into a large library. The shelves are full of files and ledgers. He walks through the stacks, his fingers raised and flicking towards various shelves as if he is trying to remember where he has put something specific.
At the rear of the library the room becomes familiar to us and we realise that this is the place where the man we now know to be Magnussen watched the footage of Sherlock rescuing John from the bonfire at the end of “The Empty Hearse”. It is dark and creepy in this area and the grotesque dolls, stuffed animals and sculptures are still on display. Magnussen goes to a rotating card index and flicks through it until he finds what he wants, then he moves on and soon after we see him looking at a file which has a photograph of Lady Smallwood paperclipped to the inside. He smiles a little. Next to her photograph is a picture of a man of around her age, and now Magnussen slides under the paperclip a photo of a beautiful girl who looks to be in her late teens. The girl has ornately coiffed hair and is wearing a strappy white top and is looking directly into the camera, clearly posing for the photograph.
Not long afterwards, Magnussen is sitting in a chair facing a large wall. A film projector whirrs beside him and the photograph of the girl is now being projected onto the wall. He is holding the original photograph in one hand and looking at it. After a moment he raises the photo to his mouth and runs one corner slowly down his bottom lip.
Some time later Lady Smallwood is sitting at a table in a room with several other tables and chairs scattered around. It’s possible that this room is in an exclusive club similar to The Diogenes Club. She is looking at paperwork. A smartly dressed attendant speaks to a man near the door.
ATTENDANT: Your car’s waiting outside, sir. See you tomorrow.
MAGNUSSEN: May I join you?
LADY SMALLWOOD: I don’t think it’s appropriate.
MAGNUSSEN: It isn’t.
LADY SMALLWOOD: Mr Magnussen, outside the enquiry we can have no contact, no communication at all.
LADY SMALLWOOD: Please don’t do that.
MAGNUSSEN: In 1982 your husband corresponded with Helen Catherine Driscoll.
LADY SMALLWOOD: That was before I knew him.
MAGNUSSEN: The letters were lively, loving – some would say explicit – and currently in my possession.
LADY SMALLWOOD: Will you please move your hand?
MAGNUSSEN : “I long, my darling, to know the touch of your ...  ... body.”
LADY SMALLWOOD: I know what was in the letters.
MAGNUSSEN: She was fifteen.
LADY SMALLWOOD: She looked older.
MAGNUSSEN: Oh, she looked delicious. We have photographs, too – the ones she sent him.  Yum yum.
LADY SMALLWOOD: He was unaware of her age. He met her only once before the letters began. When he discovered the truth, he stopped immediately. Those are the facts.
MAGNUSSEN: Facts are for history books. I work in news.
LADY SMALLWOOD: Your hand is sweating.
MAGNUSSEN: Always, I’m afraid. I have a condition.
LADY SMALLWOOD: It’s disgusting.
MAGNUSSEN: Ah, I’m used to it.  The whole world is wet to my touch.
LADY SMALLWOOD: I will call someone. I will have you removed.
MAGNUSSEN: What is that?
MAGNUSSEN: Claire de la Lune?  A bit young for you, isn’t it?
MAGNUSSEN: You want to h*t me now? Could you, still? You’re an old lady now. Perhaps you should settle for calling someone.
MAGNUSSEN: Well? Go on.
MAGNUSSEN: No? Because now there are consequences. I have the letters and therefore I have you.
LADY SMALLWOOD: This is blackmail.
MAGNUSSEN: Of course it isn’t blackmail. This is ... ownership.
LADY SMALLWOOD: You do not own me.
MAGNUSSEN: Claire de la Lune.
MAGNUSSEN: It never tastes like it smells, does it?
MAGNUSSEN : Lady Smallwood’s bill is on me. See to it.
ATTENDANT: Yes, Mr Magnussen.
Later, she is being driven home. Sitting in the back of her Rolls Royce, she is holding an open compact mirror in one hand and has a handkerchief pressed to the side of her face where Magnussen licked it. She breathes out shakily.
LADY SMALLWOOD : Oh, God.
CHAUFFEUR: You all right, ma’am?
LADY SMALLWOOD: Fine, yes.
LADY SMALLWOOD : Magnussen.
LADY SMALLWOOD : No-one stands up to him. No-one dares. No-one even tries.
LADY SMALLWOOD: There isn’t a man or woman in England capable of stopping that disgusting creature ...
CHAUFFEUR: Ma’am?
LADY SMALLWOOD: Turn the car around. We’re going back into town. Turn around.
CHAUFFEUR: Where are we going, ma’am?
LADY SMALLWOOD: Baker Street.
OPENING CREDITS.
John and Mary are asleep in bed, Mary’s hand resting on top of John’s on top of the covers. John’s hand twitches as his dream flashes back to his time in Afghanistan and he hears g*n and expl*si*n and sees his comrades fall and grimace in pain around him. He shakes his head in his sleep and his dream moves to a flashback of Sherlock during their first meeting at Baker Street.
Sherlock: Seen a lot of injuries, then? Violent deaths?
Watson: Enough for a lifetime.
Sherlock: Wanna see some more?
Watson: Oh, God, yes.
Sherlock: The game is on.
(John wakes up properly and throws back the covers.
Now wearing a dressing gown over his night clothes, he goes to the front door where someone is still knocking. He opens the door and sees a woman standing there looking back at him. She has clearly been crying for some time.)
WOMAN : I know it’s early.  Really, I’m sorry.
MARY: Is that Kate?
Watson: Y-yeah, it’s Kate.
MARY: Invite her in?
Watson: Er, sorry, yes. D-d’you wanna come in, Kate?
MARY : Hey ...
Later, Mary and Kate are sitting on the sofa. Mary is stroking Kate’s arm while she continues to cry.
MARY: It’s all right.
Watson: There you go.
MARY : It’s Isaac.
Watson: Ah, your husband.
MARY: Son.
Watson: Son, yeah.
KATE: He’s gone missing again. Didn’t come home last night.
MARY: The usual.
Watson: He’s the drugs one, yeah?
MARY: Er, yeah, nicely put, John.
Watson: Look, is it Sherlock Holmes you want? Because I’ve not seen him in ages.
MARY: About a month.
KATE: Who’s Sherlock Holmes?
MARY : See? That does happen.
KATE: There’s a – a place they all go to, him and his ... friends.
KATE : They all ... do whatever they do ...
KATE: ... sh**t up, whatever you call it.
Watson: Where is he?
KATE: It’s a house. It’s a dump. I mean, it’s practically falling down.
Watson: No, the address.
Watson: Where, exactly?
Shortly afterwards John is dressed and walking down the path outside the house and heading towards their car parked at the kerb. Mary, still in her pyjamas and dressing gown, is following him.
MARY: Seriously?
Watson: Why not? She’s not going to the police. Someone’s got to get him.
MARY : Why you?
Watson: I’m being neighbourly.
MARY: Since when?
Watson: Since now. Since this exact minute.
MARY: Why are you being so ...?
Watson: What?
MARY: I dunno. What’s the matter with you?
Watson: There is nothing the matter with me.  Imagine I said that without shouting.
MARY: I’m trying.
Watson: No, you can’t come. You’re pregnant.
MARY: You can’t go. I’m pregnant.
Later, they have parked on a piece of concreted waste ground outside the address Kate gave them. John opens the boot of the car and takes something out, then walks round to the passenger side. Mary laughs and points at what he’s tucking into the top of his jeans.
MARY: What is that?!
Watson: It’s a tyre lever.
MARY: Why?
Watson: ’Cause there were loads of smackheads in there, and one of them might need help with a tyre. If there’s any trouble, just go. I’ll be fine.
MARY: Er, John, John, John, John.
MARY: It is a tiny bit sexy.
Watson: Yeah, I know.
Watson: Hello?
BILL: What d’you want?
Watson: ’Scuse me.
BILL: Naah, naah, you can’t come in ’ere!
Watson: I’m looking for a friend.
Watson: A very specific friend – I’m not just browsing.
BILL: You’ve gotta go. No-one’s allowed ’ere.
Watson: Isaac Whitney. You seen him?
Watson: I’m asking you if you’ve seen Isaac Whitney, and now you’re showing me a Kn*fe. Is it a clue?
Watson: Are you doing a mime?
BILL: Go. Or I’ll cut you.
Watson: Ooh, not from there. Let me help.
Watson: Now, concentrate.  Isaac Whitney.
BILL: Okay, you asked for it.
Watson: Right.
Watson: Are you concentrating yet?
BILL: You broke my arm!
Watson: No, I sprained it.
BILL: It feels squishy! Is it supposed to feel squishy?
BILL: Feel that!
Watson: Yeah, it’s a sprain. I’m a doctor – I know how to sprain people.
Watson: Now where is Isaac Whitney?
BILL: I don’t know!
BILL: Maybe upstairs.
Watson: There you go.  Wasn’t that easy?
BILL : No. It’s really sore. You’re mental, you are.
Watson: No. Just used to a better class of criminal.
Watson: Isaac? Isaac Whitney?
Watson: Isaac?
Watson: Hello, mate.
Watson: Sit up for me? Sit up.
ISAAC: Doctor Watson?
Watson: Yep.
ISAAC: Where am I?
Watson: The arse-end of the universe with the scum of the Earth. Look at me.
ISAAC : Have you come for me?
Watson: D’you think I know a lot of people here?!
Watson: Hey, all right?
Sherlock: Ah, hello, John.
Sherlock: Didn’t expect to see you here.
Sherlock: Did you come for me, too?
Outside shortly afterwards, Isaac stumbles over to the car where Mary is now sitting in the driver’s seat.
MARY: Hallo, Isaac.
ISAAC : Mrs Watson, can I – can I get in, please?
MARY : Yes, of course, get in. Where’s John?
ISAAC : They’re ’avin’ a fight.
MARY: Who is?
Sherlock: For God’s sakes, John! I’m on a case!
Watson: A month – that’s all it took. One.
Sherlock: I’m working.
Watson: Sherlock Holmes in a drug den! How’s that gonna look?
Sherlock: I’m undercover.
Watson: No you’re not!
Sherlock: Well, I’m not now!
MARY : In. Both of you, quickly.
BILL: Please. Can I come? I think I’ve got a broken arm.
MARY: No. Go away.
Watson: No, let him.
MARY: Why?
Watson: Yeah, just get in. It’s a sprain.
MARY: Anyone else? I mean, we’re taking everybody home, are we?
BILL: All right, Shezza?
Watson: “Shezza”?
Sherlock: I was undercover.
MARY: Seriously – “Shezza”, though?!
Watson: We’re not going home. We’re going to Bart’s. I’m calling Molly.
MARY: Why?
Watson: Because Sherlock Holmes needs to pee in a jar.
Later, in the lab at Bart’s, Molly is finishing her tests on Sherlock’s urine sample. He is standing nearby, leaning back against the central bench and looking sulky. On the other side of the lab Bill is sitting on a side bench while Mary is wrapping a bandage round his arm. Isaac is also sitting nearby. Molly takes off her gloves with two loud snaps.
Watson: Well? Is he clean?
MOLLY: Clean?
MOLLY: How dare you throw away the beautiful gifts you were born with?
MOLLY: And how dare you betray the love of your friends? Say you’re sorry.
Sherlock: Sorry your engagement’s over – though I’m fairly grateful for the lack of a ring.
MOLLY: Stop it.  Just stop it.
Watson: If you were anywhere near this kind of thing again, you could have called, you could have talked to me.
Sherlock: Please do relax. This is all for a case.
Watson: A ca... What kind of case would need you doing this?
Sherlock: I might as well ask you why you’ve started cycling to work.
Watson: No. We’re not playing this game.
Sherlock: Quite recently, I’d say. You’re very determined about it.
Watson: Not interested.
BILL: I am.
BILL: Ow.
MARY: Oh, sorry. You moved. But it is just a sprain.
BILL: Yeah. Somebody ’it me.
MARY: Huh?
BILL: Eh, just some guy.
Watson: Yeah, probably just an addict in need of a fix.
Sherlock: Yes. I think, in a way, it was.
BILL: Is it his shirt?
Sherlock: I’m sorry?
BILL: Well, it’s the creases, innit?
BILL: The two creases down the front. It’s been recently folded but it’s not new.
BILL: Must have dressed in a hurry this morning ...
BILL: ... so all your shirts must be kept like that.
BILL: But why? Maybe ’cause you cycle to work every morning, shower when you get there an’ then dress in the clothes you brought with you.
BILL : You keep your shirts folded ...
BILL: ... ready to pack.
Sherlock: Not bad.
BILL : An’ I further deduce ...
BILL: ... you’ve only started recently, because you’ve got a bit of chafing.
Sherlock: No – he’s always walked like that. Remind me – what’s your name again?
BILL: They call me The Wig.
Sherlock: No they don’t.
BILL : Well, they-they call me Wiggy.
Sherlock: Nope.
BILL : Bill. Bill Wiggins.
Sherlock: Nice observational skills, Billy.
Sherlock: Ah! Finally.
MOLLY: “Finally” what?
BILL: Good news?
Sherlock: Oh, excellent news – the best.
Sherlock: There’s every chance that my drug habit might h*t the newspapers. The game is on.
Sherlock: Excuse me for a second.
Later, he and John are alone in the back of a taxi. Sherlock is still in his scruffy clothes, so it appears they have gone directly from Bart’s.
Sherlock: You’ve heard of Charles Augustus Magnussen, of course.
Watson: Yeah. Owns some newspapers – ones I don’t read.
Sherlock: Hang on – weren’t there other people?
Watson: Mary’s taking the boys home; I’m taking you. We did discuss it.
Sherlock: People were talking, none of them me. I must have filtered.
Watson: I noticed.
Sherlock: I have to filter out a lot of witless babble. I’ve got Mrs Hudson on semi-permanent mute.
Sherlock: What is my brother doing here?
Watson: So I’ll just pay, then, shall I?
Sherlock: He’s straightened the knocker.
Sherlock: He always corrects it. He’s OCD. Doesn’t even know he’s doing it.
Watson: Why’d you do that?
Sherlock: Do what?
Watson: Nothing.
MYCROFT: Well, then, Sherlock. Back on the sauce?
Sherlock: What are you doing here?
Watson: I phoned him.
MYCROFT: The siren call of old habits. How very like Uncle Rudy – though, in many ways, cross-dressing would have been a wiser path for you.
Sherlock: You phoned him.
Watson: ’Course I bloody phoned him.
MYCROFT: ’Course he bloody did. Now, save me a little time. Where should we be looking?
Sherlock: “We”?
ANDERSON’s VOICE : Mr Holmes?
Sherlock: For God’s sake!
(He storms up the stairs, Mycroft sliding sideways on his step to get out of his way. Mycroft and John exchange a look and John bl*ws out a breath as Mycroft leans on his umbrella to push himself to his feet.
Sherlock goes into the kitchen and glares at Anderson who is with a female colleague called Benji. )
Sherlock: Anderson.
ANDERSON : I’m sorry, Sherlock. It’s for your own good.
BENJI: Oh, that’s him, isn’t it?
BENJI: You said he’d be taller.
MYCROFT : Some members of your little fan-club. Do be polite. They’re entirely trustworthy, and even willing to search through the toxic waste dump that you are pleased to call a flat.
MYCROFT: You’re a celebrity these days, Sherlock. You can’t afford a drug habit.
Sherlock: I do not have a drug habit.
Watson: Hey, what happened to my chair?
Sherlock: It was blocking my view to the kitchen.
Watson: Well, it’s good to be missed
Sherlock: Well, you were gone. I saw an opportunity.
Watson: No, you saw the kitchen.
MYCROFT: What have you found so far? Clearly nothing.
Sherlock: There’s nothing to find.
MYCROFT : Your bedroom door is shut.
MYCROFT : You haven’t been home all night. So, why would a man who has never knowingly closed the door without the direct orders of his mother bother to do so on this occasion?
Sherlock: Okay, stop! Just stop.
Sherlock: Point made.
Watson: Jesus, Sherlock.
MYCROFT: Have to phone our parents, of course, in Oklahoma.
MYCROFT: Won’t be the first time that your substance abuse has wreaked havoc with their line-dancing.
Sherlock: This is not what you think. This is for a case.
MYCROFT: What case could possibly justify this?
Sherlock: Magnussen.
Sherlock: Charles Augustus Magnussen.
MYCROFT: That name you think you may have just heard – you were mistaken. If you ever mention hearing that name in this room, in this context, I guarantee you – on behalf of the British security services – that materials will be found on your computer hard drives resulting in your immediate incarceration. Don’t reply – just look frightened and scuttle.
MYCROFT: I hope I won’t have to thr*at you as well.
Watson: Well, I think we’d both find that embarrassing.
MYCROFT : Magnussen is not your business.
Sherlock: Oh, you mean he’s yours.
MYCROFT: You may consider him under my protection.
Sherlock: I consider you under his thumb.
MYCROFT : If you go against Magnussen, then you will find yourself going against me.
Sherlock: Okay. I’ll let you know if I notice.
Sherlock: Er, what was I going to say? Oh, yeah.
Sherlock: Bye-bye.
MYCROFT: Unwise, brother mine.
Sherlock: Brother mine, don’t appal me when I’m high.
Watson: Mycroft, don’t say another word. Just go. He could snap you in two, and right now I am slightly worried that he might.
Watson: Don’t speak. Just leave.
Watson: Oh.
Watson: Er, Magnussen?
Sherlock: What time is it?
Watson: About eight.
Sherlock: I’m meeting him in three hours. I need a bath.
Watson: It’s for a case, you said?
Sherlock: Yep.
Watson: What sort of case?
Sherlock: Too big and dangerous for any sane individual to get involved in.
Watson: You trying to put me off?
Sherlock: God, no.
Sherlock: Trying to recruit you.
Sherlock: And stay out of my bedroom.
JANINE: Oh, John, hi.
JANINE: How are you?
Watson: Janine?
JANINE: Sorry. Not dressed.
JANINE: Has everybody gone? I heard shouting.
Watson: Yes, they’re gone.
JANINE : God, look at the time. I’ll be late.
JANINE: Sounded like an argument.  Was it Mike?
Watson: Mike?
JANINE: Mike, yeah. His brother, Mike. They’re always fighting.
Watson: Mycroft.
JANINE: Do people actually call him that?!
Watson: Yeah.
JANINE: Huh! Oh, could you be a love and put some coffee on?
Watson: ... Sure, right, yeah.
JANINE : Thanks.
JANINE: Ooh, how’s Mary? How’s married life?
Watson: She’s fine. We’re both fine, yeah.
JANINE: Oh, it’s over there now.
JANINE: Where’s Sherl?
Watson: Sherl!
Watson: He’s just having a bath. I’m sure he’ll be out in a minute.
JANINE: Oh, like he ever is!
Watson: Yeah
JANINE: Morning! Room for a little one?!
Sherlock: Morning.
LATER. John is sitting on the edge of the coffee table while Sherlock – wearing black trousers and a white shirt and putting his jacket on – walks across the living room. John has a bemused smile on his face.
Sherlock: So – it’s just a guess but you’ve probably got some questions.
Watson: Yyyyeah, one or two, pretty much.
Sherlock: Naturally.
Watson: You have a girlfriend?
Sherlock: Yes, I have.
Sherlock: Now, Magnussen. Magnussen is like a shark – it’s the only way I can describe him. Have you ever been to the shark t*nk at the London Aquarium, John – stood up close to the glass? Those floating flat faces, those d*ad eyes ... That’s what he is. I’ve dealt with m*rder, psychopaths, t*rrorists, serial K*llers. None of them can turn my stomach like Charles Augustus Magnussen.
Watson: Yes, you have.
Sherlock: Sorry, what?
Watson: You have a girlfriend.
Sherlock: What? Yes! Yes, I’m going out with Janine. I thought that was fairly obvious.
Watson: Yes. Well ... yes.  But I mean you, you, you ... are in a relationship?
Sherlock: Yes, I am.
Watson: You and Janine?
Sherlock: Mmm, yes. Me and Janine.
Watson: Care to elaborate?
Sherlock: Well, we’re in a good place. It’s, um ...  ... very affirming.
Watson: You got that from a book.
Sherlock: Everyone got that from a book.
JANINE: Okay, you two bad boys, behave yourselves.
JANINE: And you, Sherl, you’re gonna have to tell me where you were last night.
Sherlock: Working.
JANINE: “Working”. Of course. I’m the only one who really knows what you’re like, remember?
Sherlock: Don’t you go letting on.
JANINE : I might just, actually.
JANINE: I haven’t told Mary about this. I kind of wanted to surprise her.
Watson: Yeah, you probably will.
JANINE: But we should have you two over for dinner really soon!
Sherlock: Yeah!
JANINE: My place, though – not the scuzz-dump!
Watson: Great, yeah! Dinner! Yeah.
JANINE : Oh, I’d better dash. It was brilliant to see you!
Watson: You too.
Sherlock: Have a lovely day. Call me later.
JANINE : I might do. I might call you – unless I meet someone prettier
JANINE: Solve me a crime, Sherlock Holmes.
Sherlock: You know Magnussen as a newspaper owner, but he’s so much more than that.
Sherlock: He uses his power and wealth to gain information. The more he acquires, the greater his wealth and power.
Sherlock: I’m not exaggerating when I say that he knows the critical pressure point on every person of note or influence in the whole of the Western world and probably beyond. He is the Napoleon of blackmail ...
Sherlock: ... and he has created an unassailable architecture of forbidden knowledge. Its name ...
Sherlock: ... is Appledore.
Watson: Dinner.
Sherlock: Sorry, what, dinner?
Watson: Me and Mary, coming for dinner ... with ... wine and ... sitting.
Sherlock: Seriously? I’ve just told you that the Western world is run from this house ...  ... and you want to talk about dinner?
Watson: Fine, talk about the house.
Sherlock: It is the greatest repository of sensitive and dangerous information anywhere in the world ...  ... the Alexandrian Library of secrets and scandals – and none of it is on a computer. He’s smart – computers can be hacked. It’s all on hard copy in vaults ...  ... underneath that house; and as long as it is, the personal freedom of anyone you’ve ever met is a fantasy.
MRS HUDSON : Oh, that was the doorbell. Couldn’t you hear it?
Sherlock: It’s in the fridge. It kept ringing.
MRS HUDSON: Oh, that’s not a fault, Sherlock!
Watson: Who is it?
(Mrs Hudson draws in an anxious breath.
Shortly afterwards she goes down the stairs to the bottom.)
MRS HUDSON: Mr Holmes said you can go right up.
(She looks nervously at whoever is waiting in the hall. We can’t immediately see who they are but she’s clearly frightened by them because she flattens herself against the wall and almost cringes as three men in dark suits walk up the stairs. Your transcriber remembers the last time men in dark suits were in her house, and wibbles on her behalf.
As a fourth person walks towards the stairs, we are looking through his eyes. He can see not only Mrs H but information about her, which reads:
MARTHA LOUISE HUDSON
LANDLADY
WIDOW
SEMI-REFORMED ALCOHOLIC
FORMER “EXOTIC DANCER”
FINANCES: 21% DEBT
STATUS: UNIMPORTANT
and underneath, flashing in red:
PRESSURE POINT: >
MARIJUANA
Upstairs, the three men – clearly security men, as they are all wearing earpieces – walk into the living room. Sherlock, now standing by the fireside with John, sighs and unfolds his arms.)
Sherlock: Oh, go ahead.
SECURITY MAN : Sir?
Watson: Can I have a moment?
Sherlock: Oh, he’s fine.
Watson: Er, I ... right. I should probably tell you ...
Watson: Okay, I ...  ... That.
Watson: And ...
Watson: Doesn’t mean I’m not pleased to see you.
Sherlock: I can vouch for this man. He’s a doctor. If you know who I am, then you know who he is ...
Sherlock: ... don’t you, Mr Magnussen?
Sherlock: I understood we were meeting at your office.
MAGNUSSEN: This is my office.
(He walks slowly towards the sofa, then stops and turns to look at John. Information appears in front of his eyes:
JOHN HAMISH WATSON
AFGHANISTAN VETERAN
G.P.
p*rn PREFERENCE: NORMAL
FINANCES: 10% DEBT
STATUS UNIMPORTANT
then, in flashing red underneath:
PRESSURE POINT: > HARRY WATSON  ALCOHOLIC
MARY MORSTAN
MAGNUSSEN: Well, it is now.
Sherlock: Mr Magnussen, I have been asked to intercede with you by Lady Elizabeth Smallwood on the matter of her husband’s letters.
Sherlock: Some time ago you ... put pressure on her concerning those letters.
Sherlock: She would like those letters back.
(Magnussen looks at him silently as he continues speaking, and information appears in front of his eyes:
SHERLOCK HOLMES
CONSULTING DETECTIVE
p*rn PREFERENCE: NORMAL
FINANCES: UNKNOWN
BROTHER: MYCROFT HOLMES
M.I.6
OFFICIALLY DECEASED 2011-2013
and underneath in red:
PRESSURE POINT:
IRENE ADLER
JIM MORIARTY
REDBEARD
HOUNDS OF THE BASKERVILLE
OPIUM
JOHN WATSON
The list of pressure points cycles round several times.)
Sherlock: Obviously the letters no longer have any practical use to you, so with that in mind ...
Sherlock: Something I said?
MAGNUSSEN: No, no. I-I was reading.
MAGNUSSEN: There’s rather a lot.
MAGNUSSEN: “Redbeard.”
MAGNUSSEN: Sorry.  S-sorry. You were probably talking?
Sherlock: I ...
Sherlock: I was trying to explain that I’ve been asked to act on behalf of ...
MAGNUSSEN: Bathroom?
SECURITY MAN : Along from the kitchen, sir.
MAGNUSSEN: Okay.
Sherlock: I’ve been asked to negotiate the return of those letters.
Sherlock: I’m aware you do not make copies of sensitive documents ...
MAGNUSSEN : Is it like the rest of the flat?
SECURITY MAN: Sir?
MAGNUSSEN: The bathroom?
SECURITY MAN: Er, yes, sir.
MAGNUSSEN: Maybe not, then.
Sherlock: Am I acceptable to you as an intermediary?
MAGNUSSEN: Lady Elizabeth Smallwood. I like her.
Sherlock: Mr Magnussen, am I acceptable to you as an intermediary?
MAGNUSSEN: She’s English, with a spine.
MAGNUSSEN: Best thing about the English ...
MAGNUSSEN: ... you’re so domesticated. All standing around, apologising ...
MAGNUSSEN: ... keeping your little heads down.
MAGNUSSEN: You can do what you like here. No one’s ever going to stop you.
MAGNUSSEN : A nation of herbivores.
MAGNUSSEN: I’ve interests all over the world but, er, everything starts in England.
MAGNUSSEN: If it works here ...
MAGNUSSEN: ... I’ll try it in a real country.
MAGNUSSEN: The United Kingdom, huh?  Petri dish to the Western world.
MAGNUSSEN: Tell Lady Elizabeth I might need those letters, so I’m keeping them.
MAGNUSSEN: Goodbye.
MAGNUSSEN: Anyway ...
MAGNUSSEN: ... they’re funny.
Watson: Jesus!
Sherlock: Did you notice the one extraordinary thing he did?
Watson: Wh... There was a moment that kind of stuck in the mind, yeah.
Sherlock: Exactly – when he showed us the letters.
Watson: ... Okay.
Sherlock: So he’s brought the letters to London – so no matter what he says, he’s ready to make a deal. Now, Magnussen only makes a deal once he’s established a person’s weaknesses – the ‘pressure point’, he calls it.
Sherlock: So, clearly he believes I’m a drug addict and no serious thr*at.
Sherlock: And, of course, because he’s in town tonight, the letters will be in his safe in his London office while he’s out to dinner with the Marketing Group of Great Britain from seven ’til ten.
Watson: How-how do you know his schedule?
Sherlock: Because I do. Right – I’ll see you tonight. I’ve got some shopping to do.
Watson: What’s tonight?
Sherlock: I’ll text instructions.
Watson: Yeah, I’ll text you if I’m available.
Sherlock: You are! I checked!
Downstairs, Sherlock goes out of the front door followed by John.
Sherlock: Don’t bring a g*n.
Watson: Why would I bring a g*n?
Sherlock: Or a Kn*fe, or a tyre lever. Probably best not to do any arm-spraining, but we’ll see how the night goes.
Watson: You’re just assuming I’m coming along?
Sherlock: Time you got out of the house, John.  You’ve put on seven pounds since you got married, and the cycling isn’t doing it.
Watson: It’s actually four pounds.
Sherlock: Mary and I think seven. See you later.
Sherlock: Hatton Garden.
EVENING/NIGHT TIME. John walks towards the entrance of a skyscraper building which houses CAM Global News. In the foyer, a TV screen is broadcasting the company’s news channel, which is currently showing a Breaking News item reading, “MP JOHN GARVIE ARRESTED ON CHARGES OF CORRUPTION.” A photograph shows the man who spoke at the parliamentary hearing at the beginning of the episode. A newsreader’s voice can be heard.
NEWSREADER : And breaking news now. John Garvie MP has been arrested today on charges of corruption. This follows an investigation ...
Sherlock: Magnussen’s office is on the top floor, just below his private flat ...  ... but there are fourteen levels of security between us and him ...
Sherlock: ... two of which aren’t even legal in this country. Want to know how we’re going to break in?
Watson: Is that what we’re doing?
Sherlock: Of course it’s what we’re doing.
(He turns and walks away.
Later, the boys are each carrying a takeaway cup of coffee and are walking towards an escalator in the building.)
Sherlock: Magnussen’s private lift. It goes straight to his penthouse and office. Only he uses it ...  ... and only his key card calls the lift. Anyone else even tries, security is automatically informed.
Sherlock: Standard key card for the building. Nicked it yesterday. Only gets us as far as the canteen.
Sherlock: Here we go, then.
Sherlock: If I was to use this card on that lift now, what happens?
Watson: Er, the alarms would go off and you’d be dragged away by security.
REAL-Sherlock: Exactly.
Watson: Get taken to a small room somewhere and your head kicked in.
Sherlock: Do we really need so much colour?
Watson: It passes the time.
Sherlock: But if I do this ...
Sherlock: If you press a key card against your mobile phone for long enough, it corrupts the magnetic strip. The card stops working. It’s a common problem – never put your key card with your phone.
Sherlock: What happens if I use the card now?
Watson: It still doesn’t work.
Sherlock: But it doesn’t read as the wrong card now.
Sherlock: It registers as corrupted. But if it’s corrupted, how do they know it’s not Magnussen?
Watson: Huh.
Sherlock: Would they risk dragging him off?
Watson: Probably not.
Sherlock: So what do they do? What do they have to do?
Watson: Check if it’s him or not.
Sherlock: There’s a camera at eye height to the right of the door.
(Imaginary-Sherlock walks up to the lift doors again, where the security card reader has a flashing red light above it. He swipes the card past the reader and on a laptop elsewhere in the building there’s a repeated beeping sound and a message comes up on the screen reading:
ALERT LOCKED
CORRUPTED CARD
CONNECT CAMERA
Sherlock: A live picture of the card user is relayed directly to Magnussen’s personal staff in his office – the only people trusted to make a positive ID.
Sherlock: ... at this hour, almost certainly his PA.
Watson: S-so how’s that help us?
Sherlock: Human error.  I’ve been shopping.
Sherlock: Here we go, then.
Watson: You realise you don’t exactly look like Magnussen.
Sherlock: Which, in this case, is a considerable advantage.
JANINE : Sherlock, you complete loon! What are you doing?!
Watson: Hang on – was that ...? That ...!
Sherlock: Hi, Janine.  Go on, let me in.
JANINE: I can’t! You know I can’t. Don’t be silly.
Sherlock: Don’t make me do it out here. Not ...  ... in front of everyone.
JANINE: Do what in front of everyone?
Sherlock: You see? As long as there’s people, there’s always a weak spot.
Watson: That was Janine.
Sherlock: Yes, of course it was Janine. She’s Magnussen’s PA. That’s the whole point.
Watson: Did you just get engaged to break into an office?
Sherlock: Yeah.  Stroke of luck, meeting her at your wedding. You can take some of the credit.
Watson: Je-Jesus!
Watson: Sherlock, she loves you.
Sherlock: Yes. Like I said – human error.
Watson: What are you gonna do?
Sherlock: Well, not actually marry her, obviously.  There’s only so far you can go.
Watson: So what will you tell her?
Sherlock: Well, I’ll tell her that our entire relationship was a ruse to break into her boss’ office. I imagine she’ll want to stop seeing me at that point ...
Sherlock: ... but you’re the expert on women.
Watson: So where did she go?
Sherlock: It’s a bit rude. I just proposed to her.
Watson: Sherlock ...
Sherlock: Did she faint? Do they really do that?
Watson: It’s a blow to the head.  She’s breathing. Janine?
Sherlock: Another in here.
Sherlock: Security.
Watson: Does he need help?
Sherlock: Ex-con.
Sherlock: White supremacist, by the tattoo, so who cares?  Stick with Janine.
Watson: Janine, focus on my voice now. Can you hear me?
(Sherlock looks around the room again and then goes to the nearby glass desk. He bends down, holding his hand over the top of it while looking at it closely, then works his way round to the other side, looking carefully at everything. He squats down to the leather chair behind the desk and puts his hand on the seat, immediately working out the temperature of the leather:
TEMPERATURE: 35°C
In the other room, John looks up as if he has just had a thought and then gets up and walks to where he can see Sherlock next door.)
Watson: Hey. They must still be here.
Sherlock: So’s Magnussen. His seat’s still warm. He should be at dinner but he’s still in the building.
Sherlock: Upstairs!
Watson: We should call the police.
Sherlock: During our own burglary?! You’re really not a natural at this, are you?
Sherlock: No, wait, shh!
(Standing at the side of the chair, he closes his eyes, sniffs deeply and holds his hands out to the sides. As John goes back to Janine, Sherlock sniffs twice more, the final one a deep long sniff, and a couple of words appear around him:
VERSACE
No 5
Sherlock: Perfume – not Janine’s.
PRADA
Dior
Claire-de-la-lune
Sherlock: Why do I know it?
Watson: Mary wears it.
Sherlock: No, not Mary. Somebody else.
Watson: Sherlock!
(But Sherlock’s already off, running across the room to the stairs and hurrying up them, pausing partway up to look up the stairs before quickly continuing on.
Up in what must be Magnussen’s private penthouse flat, Sherlock walks softly along the carpeted hall towards where he can hear Magnussen talking quietly and sounding very anxious and almost tearful.)
MAGNUSSEN : What-what-what would your husband think, eh?
MAGNUSSEN : He ... your lovely husband, upright, honourable ...
MAGNUSSEN: ... so English. What-what would he say to you now?
MAGNUSSEN: Nej, nej!
MAGNUSSEN : You’re-you’re doing this to protect him from the truth ... but is this protection he would want?
Sherlock: Additionally, if you’re going to commit m*rder, you might consider changing your perfume ...
Sherlock: ... Lady Smallwood.
MAGNUSSEN : Sorry. Who?
MAGNUSSEN: That’s ... not ... Lady Smallwood, Mr Holmes.
(Sherlock frowns. The person in black turns to face him, aiming the p*stol at him, and Sherlock looks into the face of Mary Elizabeth Watson.
He draws in a breath and rapidly flashes back to several different times when they have been together  and in each of those moments his many deductions about her – many of which were seen during “The Empty Hearse” – swarm around her. Then he’s back in Magnussen’s flat and the deductions fade, leaving many instances of only one word repeatedly drifting around her as she aims her g*n towards him:
Liar
They too fade and he focuses on her face as she stares back at him. A single large word appears beside her face:
Liar
MARY : Is John with you?
Sherlock: He’s, um ...
MARY : Is John here?
Sherlock: He-he’s downstairs.
MAGNUSSEN : So, what do you do now? k*ll us both?
Sherlock: Mary, whatever he’s got on you, let me help.
MARY : Oh, Sherlock, if you take one more step I swear I will k*ll you.
Sherlock: No, Mrs Watson.
Sherlock: You won’t.
MARY : I’m sorry, Sherlock. Truly am.
Sherlock: Mary?
(She turns and points her p*stol down at Magnussen. His eyes widen ...
... and the scene freeze frames as a loud alarm siren begins to blare repeatedly. The room darkens around Sherlock and a spotlight shines onto his face as he stares ahead of himself in shock.
As the alarm continues, he is suddenly running quickly down the flights of a staircase in a white-walled building. Everything about the view suggests that this place is decaying and unlived in – the paint is peeling from the walls, the concrete of the uncarpeted stairs is crumbling and the red paint on the bannisters is cracking off. The camera is above the stairs and there are several storeys below where he currently is. He clings to the bannisters and braces his other hand on the wall as he continues rapidly downwards.
Back in Magnussen’s room, Molly – wearing her white lab coat – walks around behind Sherlock.)
MOLLY : It’s not like it is in the movies. There’s not a great big spurt of blood and you go flying backwards.
MOLLY : The impact isn’t spread over a wide area.
MOLLY: It’s tightly focussed, so there’s little or no energy transfer.
MOLLY: You stay still ...
MOLLY: ... and the b*llet pushes through.
MOLLY: You’re almost certainly going to die, so we need to focus.
(She slaps him hard across the face. He hauls in a huge breath, his eyes snapping open as his head jerks to the side under her blow.
In Magnussen’s room, both Magnussen and Mary are still frozen. Sherlock’s eyelids lift a little.)
MOLLY : I said ...
MOLLY: ... focus.
MOLLY: It’s all well and clever having a Mind Palace, but you’ve only three seconds of consciousness left to use it. So, come on – what’s going to k*ll you?
Sherlock: Blood loss.
MOLLY : Exactly.
MOLLY: So, it’s all about one thing now.
MOLLY: Forwards, or backwards?
(He lowers his head and his eyes close ...
... and he’s back in Magnussen’s room staring ahead of himself.)
MOLLY : We need to decide which way you’re going to fall.
ANDERSON: One hole, or two?
Sherlock: Sorry?
MOLLY: Is the b*llet still inside you ...
MOLLY: ... or is there an exit wound?
MOLLY : It’ll depend on the g*n.
Sherlock: That one, I think.
Sherlock: Or that one.
MYCROFT : Oh, for God’s sake, Sherlock.
MYCROFT: It doesn’t matter about the g*n. Don’t be stupid.
MYCROFT: You always were so stupid.
MYCROFT: Such a disappointment.
YOUNG Sherlock: I’m not stupid.
MYCROFT : You’re a very stupid little boy.
MYCROFT: Mummy and Daddy are very cross ...
MYCROFT: ... because it doesn’t matter about the g*n.
YOUNG Sherlock: Why not?
MYCROFT: You saw the whole room when you entered it. What was directly behind you when you were m*rder?
YOUNG Sherlock: I’ve not been m*rder yet.
MYCROFT : Balance of probability, little brother.
(Young Sherlock looks down, and the loud alarm begins to blare again as he turns his head to look behind him.
In Magnussen’s room, adult Sherlock also turns around to where a row of panelled mirrors is behind him on the wall. Mycroft can be seen fuzzily reflected in the mirrors as if he is standing some distance away. Sherlock walks closer to the mirrors and looks in them.)
MYCROFT : If the b*llet had passed through you, what would you have heard?
Sherlock: The mirror shattering.
MYCROFT: You didn’t. Therefore ...?
Sherlock: The b*llet’s still inside me.
ANDERSON : So, we need to take him down backwards.
MOLLY : I agree. Sherlock ...
MOLLY: ... you need to fall on your back.
ANDERSON : Right now, the b*llet is the cork in the bottle.
MOLLY : The b*llet itself is blocking most of the blood flow.
ANDERSON : But any pressure or impact on the entrance wound could dislodge it.
MOLLY : Plus, on your back, gravity’s working for us.
MOLLY : Fall now.
(Sherlock’s eyes half-close and his body begins to slump. In very slow-motion he starts to topple backwards. The room takes on its normal colour as he slowly falls back. He is falling towards the right-hand side of the room, and the entire room seems to tilt down towards the left as he goes. Mary and the kneeling Magnussen, still frozen in place with her pointing her p*stol at him while she looks towards Sherlock, do not move as the room continues to tilt further to the left, but a plant in a plant pot on the windowsill begins to slide slowly across the sill towards the left of the room.
Before he hits the floor Sherlock is suddenly back in the bright white mortuary room, standing upright, and the alarm is blaring again. He stumbles back against the cabinets in the wall, claps his hands to his ears and cries out in alarm.)
Sherlock: What the hell is that? What’s happening?
MOLLY : You’re going into shock.
MOLLY: It’s the next thing that’s going to k*ll you.
Sherlock: What do I do?
MYCROFT: Don’t go into shock, obviously.
MYCROFT: Must be something in this ridiculous memory palace of yours that can calm you down.
MYCROFT’s VOICE : ... calm you down.
MYCROFT: Find it.
MYCROFT : The East Wind is coming, Sherlock.  It’s coming to get you.
SHERLOCK’s VOICE : It’s coming to get you.
(Without transition a door opens in front of him and Mary – wearing her wedding dress and with a white veil over her face – stands facing him aiming a p*stol at him. She fires and Sherlock screams and falls backwards in slow-motion.
Before he hits the floor he’s suddenly in a long corridor lined with wooden doors. Mycroft’s voice sounds in his head as he races along the corridor.)
MYCROFT’s VOICE: Find it.
Sherlock: Hello, Redbeard. Here, boy. Come on!
Sherlock: Come to me. It’s okay. It’s all right.
YOUNG Sherlock: Come on! It’s me! It’s me, come on!
(The dog breaks into a run, barking as he continues onwards.
Adult Sherlock is now squatting in the middle of the corridor, smiling with delight and still patting his legs encouragingly as the dog runs towards him.)
Sherlock: Come on!
YOUNG Sherlock: Good boy! Clever boy!
(The barking dog reaches the boy, who kneels down smiling happily and starts stroking his head and ears.
The dog has also reached the adult Sherlock and is licking his face as Sherlock strokes his head and ears.)
Sherlock: Hello, Redbeard. They’re putting me down too, now. It’s no fun, is it?
Sherlock: Redbeard.
(The dog barks, and Sherlock falls backwards to the floor.
In Magnussen’s flat, Sherlock continues his slow-motion fall backwards, and finally lands on the carpet staring upwards blankly.)
MOLLY : Without the shock, you’re going to feel the pain.
MOLLY: There’s a hole ripped through you. Massive internal bleeding.
MOLLY: You have to control the pain.
Sherlock: Control! Control! Control.
Sherlock: You.
Sherlock: You never felt pain, did you? Why did you never feel pain?
JIM MORIARTY : You always feel it, Sherlock.
(He turns his head some more and looks across at Sherlock, his face m*rder. His face is dirty and it is flushed dark red with rage. Sherlock stares back at him.
The lights around the walls flicker briefly and Jim surges up and charges towards him, his mouth wide and roaring with fury. Sherlock recoils but just before Jim can crash into him the chain on his collar, fastened to the wall behind him, reaches its full length and prevents him from going further. He shouts manically into Sherlock’s face.)
JIM: But you don’t have to fear it!
JIM: Pain. Heartbreak. Loss.
JIM : Death. It’s all good.
JIM : It’s all good.
JOHN’s VOICE: Sherlock?
Watson: Sherlock?
Watson: Can you hear me?
Watson: What happened?
MAGNUSSEN : He got sh*t.
Watson: Jesus.
Watson: Sherlock! Oh, my ...
Watson: Who sh*t him?
OPERATOR : Emergency. Which service do you require?
JIM: ♪ It’s raining, it’s pouring. Sherlock is boring ... ♪
(Sherlock sinks down on the floor, his convulsions beginning to slow. Jim crouches down near Sherlock’s head.
In the real world and outside the offices, an emergency siren sounds as paramedics wheel Sherlock on a stretcher towards a nearby ambulance. John is at his side.)
JIM : ♪ I’m laughing, I’m crying ... ♪
JIM : ♪ ... Sherlock is dying. ♪
Watson: Sherlock.
Watson: We’re losing you. Sherlock?
(Sherlock’s eyes crack open a little.
On his knees in the padded cell, Jim leans forward as far as his chain will let him and breathes out heavily into Sherlock’s face.)
JIM : Come on, Sherlock.
JIM : Just die, why can’t you?
JIM: One little push, and off you pop.
(He turns onto his back and looks up.
In an operating theatre in a hospital, a heart monitor is letting out a single continuous tone and a flat line rolls across the screen. One of several doctors surrounding the operating table does a few more heart compressions on Sherlock’s chest and then withdraws his hands. As the doctors turn away from the table, having clearly been trying to restart his heart for some time but now having decided that there is no point continuing, an overhead view of the operating table shows Sherlock, bare to the waist and with a breathing tube down his throat, lying with his eyes closed as the monitor’s single tone continues. The lights in the room seem to go out, leaving a single light shining down on his body.
In the padded cell, Jim is kneeling up and he talks conversationally as the monitor’s flatline tone can still be heard.)
JIM: You’re gonna love being d*ad, Sherlock.
JIM: No-one ever bothers you.
JIM : Mrs Hudson will cry; and Mummy and Daddy will cry ...
JIM: ... and The Woman will cry; and John will cry buckets and buckets. It’s him that I worry about the most. That wife!
JIM: You’re letting him down, Sherlock. John Watson is definitely in danger.
(On the floor of the cell, Sherlock’s eyes abruptly open. Jim slowly turns his head towards him as Sherlock stares upwards. Jim’s eyes widen as the lights around the room flash repeatedly. Sherlock convulses once and blinks, then sighs out a painful breath. Grimacing with the effort he starts to try and get up.
In the operating room, the single tone continues and the monitor still shows a flat line.
Groaning, Sherlock slams his hand onto the floor of the cell and then forces himself onto one elbow. He raises his other arm and savagely punches the concrete floor with all his strength. Kneeling nearby, Jim looks down at him with an irritated look on his face.)
JIM : Oh, you’re not getting better, are you?
JIM: Was it something I said, huh?
Sherlock: John!
JIM: SHERLOCK!
(He is alone in the room and the door is closed. He slumps down onto his knees against the wall, taking up the same position he was in when Sherlock first entered the room.
In the operating room, the camera continues to move downwards towards Sherlock’s still form.
In his Mind Palace, Sherlock takes hold of the bannister at the bottom of the stairs.
The camera moves downward in the operating room and the flatline continues on the monitor.
Grimacing in agony, Sherlock begins to haul himself up the stairs.
In the operating room the monitor gives a single blip and the index finger of Sherlock’s left hand twitches very slightly.
Sherlock continues his painful ascent up the stairs, leaning heavily on the bannisters or bracing himself against the wall. He cries out with the effort.
The line on the heart monitor blips and shows its first spike. Simultaneously but offscreen, from the stairs Sherlock lets out an anguished groan of “John!” One of the doctors slowly turns his head to look towards the monitor, and the lights in the operating theatre seem to come on again.
His face contorted in agony, Sherlock slumps against the bannisters as he continues upwards and he seems to hear John’s voice calling his name.
On the operating table, Sherlock’s left index finger lifts off the cover on which his hand is lying. The doctor’s eyes widen, and all the staff in the room hurry back to the table.
Sherlock continues his climb, his right hand braced on the bannisters and the left dragging across the wall. The fingers of his left hand momentarily slide across the wallpaper of his living room in Baker Street. Now almost crawling, he reaches up and grabs the railings of the bannister as he drags himself upwards.
One of the doctors looks across to another as if he can’t believe what he is seeing.
His face contorted in concentration and agony, Sherlock grabs at the bannister with a loud cry as he continues to climb.
The heart monitor shows another spike and another blip can be heard.
The doctor looks down to Sherlock again.
His determined gaze almost manic, Sherlock forces his hand upwards to clutch at the bannister and pull himself higher.
The heart monitor spikes and blips.
In his mind’s eye, Sherlock sees a rapid montage of images: several moments from when Magnussen showed him the edge of the papers in his jacket pocket in 221B’s living room; then Mary aiming her g*n down at Magnussen in his flat before Sherlock knew who the potential k*ller was; then the front door to 221B. His inner vision closes in on the door and settles on it.
In the operating room, his eyelids begin to lift as the heart monitor’s blips become more regular. The doctor looks down at him ...
... and Sherlock Holmes opens his eyes. His gaze becomes more focussed, and his mouth begins to close around the tube in his mouth in an attempt to form a word. As the scene switches to the next one, a soft whisper can be heard.
SHERLOCK’s VOICE : Mary.
HOSPITAL. DAYTIME. Mary – now dressed more normally – hurries through the entrance and across the foyer. She runs up a flight of stairs to where John is waiting for her on the landing.
Watson: Mary.
MARY: Hey.
Watson: He’s only bloody woken up! He’s pulled through.
MARY : Really?! Seriously?
Watson: Oh, you, Mrs Watson ...  ... you’re in big trouble.
MARY: Really? Why?
Watson: His first word when he woke up?
Watson: “Mary”!
MARY: Ahh!
APPLEDORE. Magnussen walks downstairs from the entrance hall, goes past the kitchen, into the glass-walled study and heads towards the wooden doors. He goes down the spiral staircase and through the library, his fingers raised and flickering towards the shelves.
HOSPITAL ROOM. A drip hangs on a stand beside Sherlock’s bed where he lies with a nasal cannula on his face. A rotary fan is on the cabinet beside his bed and the shadow of its rotating blades flickers across his face.
MARY : You don’t tell him.
MARY : Sherlock?
MARY: You don’t tell John.
At the rear of the Appledore archive, Magnussen is looking at a folder which has one or two photographs of Mary paperclipped to the inside.
MAGNUSSEN : Bad girl.
MAGNUSSEN : Bad, bad girl.
In Sherlock’s hospital room Mary leans down to him, her image still fuzzy.
MARY : Look at me – and tell me you’re not gonna tell him.
DAYS LATER . DAYTIME. The top of Sherlock’s bed has been raised a little, and now he opens his eyes and lifts his head from the pillow with a tired sigh at the sound of rustling newspapers. He no longer has the nasal cannula. In front of him someone is holding up the front page of a newspaper to show him. The headline of the Daily Express reads, “SHAG-A-LOT HOLMES” and the strapline says, “Sherlock is as red blooded as they come, claims fiancé” . Whoever is holding the paper puts it down to reveal the front page of another newspaper – the Daily Mirror – which has a red strapline at the top reading, “EXCLUSIVE – SHERLOCK HOLMES KISS AND TELL” and a main headline saying, “7 TIMES A NIGHT IN BAKER STREET”. The person holding the paper – who we now see is wearing red nail varnish – lowers that paper and shows an inside page of one of the broadsheets. A large photograph of Janine smiling into the camera while wearing a deerstalker hat has an inset photo of Sherlock, and the headline reads, “He made me wear the hat.”
JANINE: I’m buying a cottage.
JANINE: I made a lot of money out of you, mister.
JANINE: Nothing hits the spot like revenge for profits.
Sherlock: You didn’t give these stories to Magnussen, did you?
JANINE: God, no – one of his rivals. He was spittin’!
JANINE : Sherlock Holmes, you are a back-s*ab, heartless, manipulative bastard.
Sherlock: And you – as it turns out – are a grasping, opportunistic, publicity-hungry tabloid whore.
JANINE : So we’re good, then!
Sherlock: Yeah, of course.  Where’s the cottage?
JANINE: Sussex Downs.
Sherlock: Hmm, nice.
JANINE: It’s gorgeous. There’s beehives, but I’m getting rid of those.
JANINE: Aw, hurts, does it? Probably wanna restart your morphine. I might have fiddled with the taps.
Sherlock: How much more revenge are you gonna need?
JANINE: Just the occasional top-up.
JANINE: Dream come true for you, this place. They actually attach the drugs to you!
Sherlock: Not good for working.
JANINE: You won’t be working for a while, Sherl.
JANINE : You lied to me. You lied and lied.
Sherlock: I exploited the fact of our connection.
JANINE: When?!
Sherlock: Hmm?
JANINE: Just once would have been nice.
Sherlock: Oh.  I was waiting until we got married.
JANINE: That was never gonna happen!
JANINE: Got to go.
JANINE: I’m not supposed to keep you talking.
JANINE : And also I have an interview with The One Show and I haven’t made it up yet.
JANINE: Just one thing.
JANINE: You shouldn’t have lied to me. I know what kind of man you are ... but we could have been friends.
JANINE: I’ll give your love to John and Mary.
(She goes out, closing the door behind her. Sherlock looks towards the door thoughtfully, then looks upwards for a moment. He turns towards the morphine dispenser and, grunting in pain, pushes the button to lower the dosage. The read-out shows the level dropping back to a lower level. He releases the button with a tired sigh. He closes his eyes ...
... and opens them in the wooden door-lined corridor of his Mind Palace. Standing up and fully dressed, including his coat, he stares intensely ahead of himself.)
MARY : You don’t tell him.
MARY: You don’t tell John.
Sherlock: So ...
Sherlock: ... Mary Watson. Who are you?
Sherlock: Mary Watson.
(He stops, and the words fade out and vanish. He turns to face her ...
... and in Magnussen’s flat Mary’s black-gloved hand pulls the trigger on the p*stol and the shell flies out of the top in slow motion.
In his hospital bed, his fingers steepled together on his chest and his eyes closed, Sherlock lowers his hands as the sound of the g*n echoes in his ears. He sighs, raises his head and tiredly opens his eyes.)
EVENING, possibly the same day. John is leading Greg Lestrade up the stairs of the hospital.
Watson: Dunno how much sense you’ll get out of him. He’s drugged up, so he’s pretty much babbling.
Watson: Oh, they won’t let you use that in here, you know.
LESTRADE: No, I’m not gonna use the phone. I just wanna take a video.
(He and John grin at each other and Greg chuckles.
Shortly afterwards John opens the door to Sherlock’s room and they go inside. The bed is empty. John looks round the room, and his face fills with shock when he realises that the window blind has been pulled up and the window is open.)
Watson: Oh, Jesus.
Mary, perhaps at home, is on the phone.
MARY : So where would he go?
Watson: Oh, Christ knows. Try finding Sherlock in London.
John and Greg are on their way out of the hospital.
LESTRADE: He’s got three known bolt holes ...
LESTRADE: Parliament Hill, Camden Lock and Dagmar Court.
MYCROFT: Five known bolt holes.
MYCROFT: There’s the blind greenhouse in Kew Gardens and the leaning tomb in Hampstead Cemetery.
)
Molly is sitting in a canteen wearing her lab coat and holding a cardboard coffee cup. Some sandwiches part-wrapped in tin foil, together with a tangerine, are on the table beside her. She looks up at whoever she’s speaking to. We can’t see this person because we are looking through their eyes.
MOLLY: Just the spare bedroom. ...  Well ... my bedroom. We agreed he needs the space.
There’s a brief sh*t of Big Ben chiming two minutes past nine .
MRS HUDSON: Behind the clock face of Big Ben.
Watson: I think he was probably joking.
MRS HUDSON: No! I don’t think so!
ANDERSON: Leinster Gardens. That’s his number one bolt hole. It’s top-top secret.
BENJI : He only knows about it ’cause he stalked him one night.
ANDERSON: Followed!
BENJI: Followed, yeah.
221B. John is in the living room, pacing, and Greg and Mrs Hudson are in the kitchen.
Watson: He knew who sh*t him.
Watson: The b*llet wound was here, so he was facing whoever it was.
LESTRADE : So why not tell us?
LESTRADE: Because he’s tracking them down himself.
Watson: Or protecting them.
LESTRADE: Protecting the sh**t? Why?
Watson: Well, protecting someone, then. But why would he care? He’s Sherlock. Who would he bother protecting?
LESTRADE: Call me if you hear anything. Don’t hold out on me, John.
LESTRADE: Call me, okay?
Watson: Yeah. Yeah, right.
LESTRADE: Good night, then.
MRS HUDSON: Oh ...
MRS HUDSON : ’Bye, then.
MRS HUDSON: John? Need a cuppa.
Watson: Mrs Hudson ...  ... wh-why does Sherlock think that I’ll be moving back in here?
MRS HUDSON: Oh, yes, he’s put your chair back again, hasn’t he?
Watson: Huh.
MRS HUDSON: That’s nice!
MRS HUDSON: Looks much better.
MRS HUDSON: John, what’s wrong? Tell me.
MRS HUDSON: John?
MRS HUDSON: That’s your phone, isn’t it?
MRS HUDSON: It’s Sherlock, John. It’s Sherlock.
MRS HUDSON: John! You have to answer it!
The distinctive crescent moon shape of the perfume bottle dissolves into a view of the real Moon, half full in the night sky. Mary is walking along a road towards Leinster Gardens. It is an expensive-looking area, with a long terrace of four-storey white-plastered Edwardian buildings lining the road. A homeless person is squatting with his back to the wall at the corner of the road. He has the hood of his jacket pulled over his head, a blanket wrapped around him, and a white plastic tub is on the ground in front of him.
HOMELESS MAN : Spare any change, love?
MARY : No.
HOMELESS MAN : Oh, come on, love. Don’t be like all the rest.
BILL : Rule One of looking for Sherlock ’olmes ...
BILL: ... ’e finds you.
MARY: You’re working for Sherlock now.
BILL: Keeps me off the streets, dunnit?
MARY: Well ... no.
MARY : Where are you?
Sherlock: Can’t you see me?
MARY: Well, what am I looking for?
Sherlock: The lie – the lie of Leinster Gardens – hidden in plain sight.
Sherlock: Hardly anyone notices. People live here for years and never see it, but if you are what I think you are, it’ll take you less than a minute.
Sherlock: The houses, Mary. Look at the houses.
MARY: How did you know I’d come here?
Sherlock: I knew you’d talk to the people no one else would bother with.
MARY : I thought I was being clever.
Sherlock: You’re always clever, Mary. I was relying on that. I planted the information for you to find.
MARY : Ohh.
Sherlock: Thirty seconds.
MARY: What am I looking at?
Sherlock: No door knobs, no letter box ...
Sherlock: ... painted windows. Twenty-three and twenty-four Leinster Gardens ...
Sherlock: ... the empty houses.
Sherlock: They were demolished years ago to make way for the London Underground, a vent for the old steam trains.
Sherlock: Only the very front section of the house remains. It’s just a façade.  Remind you of anyone, Mary? A façade.
Sherlock: Sorry. I never could resist a touch of drama.
Sherlock: Do come in. It’s a little cramped.
MARY : Do you own this place?
Sherlock: Mmm. I won it in a card game with the Clarence House Cannibal.
Sherlock: Nearly cost me my kidneys, but fortunately I had a ...  ... straight flush.
Sherlock: Quite a gambler, that woman.
MARY: What do you want, Sherlock?
Sherlock: Mary Morstan was stillborn in October 1972. Her gravestone is in Chiswick Cemetery where – five years ago – you acquired her name and date of birth and thereafter her identity.
Sherlock: That’s why you don’t have ‘friends’ from before that date.
FLASHBACK to Sherlock standing in the living room of 221B looking at his wedding plans on the wall behind the sofa.
Sherlock: Need to work on your half of the church, Mary. Looking a bit thin.
MARY : Ah, orphan’s lot. Friends – that’s all I have.
In the present, Mary continues to walk slowly along the corridor.
Sherlock: It’s an old enough technique, known to the kinds of people who can recognise a skip-code on sight ...
FLASHBACK to Mary on the first floor landing at 221, showing Sherlock the text message she has received.
MARY: At first I thought it was just a Bible thing, you know, spam, but it’s not. It’s a skip-code.
In the present, Mary is still walking towards the seated figure she can now see a little better as it sits on the chair at the end of the corridor, although the face is still obscured in shadow. The medical drip is on a stand behind the chair and the recognisable shape of the morphine dispenser can be seen attached to the stand.
Sherlock: ... have extraordinarily retentive memories ...
FLASHBACK to the wedding venue as Sherlock stands partway up the staircase with the tips of his fingers against his temples and his eyes screwed closed.
Watson: How can you not remember which room? You remember everything.
Sherlock: I have to delete something!
MARY: Two oh seven.
In the present, Mary has stopped about halfway along the corridor.
MARY: You were very slow.
Sherlock: How good a sh*t are you?
MARY: How badly do you want to find out?
Sherlock: If I die here, my body will be found in a building with your face projected on the front of it. Even Scotland Yard could get somewhere with that.
Sherlock: I want to know how good you are.  Go on. Show me. The doctor’s wife must be a little bit bored by now.
(Shifting her p*stol in her grip, Mary looks down and reaches into her shoulder bag and takes out a fifty pence coin. Balancing it on her thumb and forefinger, she looks up to gauge the height of the ceiling, then flicks the coin high into the air, raises the g*n and fires at it. The ejected shell pings off the wall in front of her and she turns and lowers her head to avoid the coin as it falls down to the floor. She turns to look at the shadowed figure.
Behind her a shadow appears on the wall as someone walks through the open front door. The shadow is instantly recognisable as Sherlock’s with its curly hair and popped collar, and now he lowers his phone from his ear and switches it off as he walks towards her.)
Sherlock: May I see?
MARY: It’s a dummy.
MARY: I suppose it was a fairly obvious trick.
Sherlock: And yet, over a distance of six feet, you failed to make a k*ll sh*t.
Sherlock: Enough to hospitalise me; not enough to k*ll me. That wasn’t a miss.
Sherlock: That was surgery.
Sherlock: I’ll take the case.
MARY : What case?
Sherlock: Yours.  Why didn’t you come to me in the first place?
MARY: Because John can’t ever know that I lied to him. It would break him and I would lose him forever – and, Sherlock, I will never let that happen.
MARY: Please ...
MARY: ... understand. There is nothing in this world that I would not do to stop that happening.
Sherlock: Sorry.
Sherlock: Not that obvious a trick.
Sherlock: Now talk, and sort it out. Do it quickly.
A church choir can be heard singing the Christmas carol, “Hark, the Herald Angels Sing”. From the quality of the sound, it appears that the music is coming from a radio. Outside a red-walled cottage, Sherlock’s and Mycroft’s father comes out of the door wearing grey trousers, a white checked shirt, a bright red bowtie, and a grey cardigan. He goes over to a nearby pile of small wooden logs and picks up two of them before going back inside. Mycroft’s voice can be heard. It has a rather despairing tone to it.
MYCROFT : Oh, dear God, it’s only two o’clock. It’s been Christmas Day for at least a week now.
MYCROFT : How can it only be two o’clock? I’m in agony.
MRS Sherlock: Mikey, is this your laptop?
MYCROFT: On which depends the security of the free world, yes ...  ... and you’ve got potatoes on it.
MRS HOLMES : Well, you shouldn’t leave it lying around if it’s so important.
MYCROFT: Why are we doing this? We never do this.
MRS Sherlock: We are here because Sherlock is home from hospital and we are all very happy.
MYCROFT: Am I happy too? I haven’t checked.
MRS HOLMES : Behave, Mike.
MYCROFT: ‘Mycroft’ is the name you gave me, if you could possibly struggle all the way to the end.
BILL: Mrs Holmes?
MRS Sherlock: Oh! Thank you, dear.
MRS Sherlock: Not absolutely sure why you’re here.
Sherlock: I invited him.
BILL: I’m his protégé, Mrs ’olmes. When ’e dies, I get all his stuff, an’ ’is job.
Sherlock: No.
BILL: Oh. Well, I help out a bit.
Sherlock: Closer.
BILL: If ’e does get m*rder or something ...
Sherlock: Probably stop talking now.
BILL: Okay.
MYCROFT : Lovely when you bring your friends round
MRS HOLMES : Stop it, you. Somebody’s put a b*llet in my boy ...  ... and if I ever find out who, I shall turn absolutely monstrous.
MRS Sherlock: Ah. This was for Mary.  I’ll be back in a minute.
In the sitting room of the cottage, which also has random Christmas decorations around it, Mr Holmes goes across to the open door of the wood-burning fireplace and puts the two pieces of wood into the lit f*re. Mrs Holmes comes in.
MRS Sherlock: Ah, Mary.
MRS Sherlock: There you are.
MRS Sherlock: Cup of tea. Now, if Father starts making little humming noises, just give him a little poke. That usually does it.
MARY : Did you write this?
MRS Sherlock: Oh, that silly old thing. You mustn’t read that. Mathematics must seem terribly fatuous now!
MRS HOLMES : Now, no humming, you!
MR Sherlock: Complete flake, my wife, but happens to be a genius.
MARY: She was a mathematician?
MR Sherlock: Gave it all up for children.
MR Sherlock: I could never bear to argue with her. I’m something of a moron myself. But she’s ...  ... unbelievably hot!
MARY : Oh my God. You’re the sane one, aren’t you?!
MR HOLMES : Aren’t you?!
Watson: Oh.
Watson: Sorry. I-I just, er ...
MR Sherlock: Oh. Er-er, do you two need a moment?
Watson: If you don’t mind.
MR HOLMES : No, of course not. I’ll-I’ll go and see if I can help with ... something or another.
(He goes out, closing the door behind him. John watches him go, then runs his hand under his nose and turns towards Mary. She looks down at her book for a few more moments, then raises her head and briefly watches as he slowly walks across the room to stand in front of the f*re, facing her. Again she glances briefly towards him before turning her attention back to the book on her lap.
Outside the closed door, Sherlock has walked over and has taken his coat from the pegs on the wall nearby. Standing at the door, his father looks at him and points back towards the sitting room.)
MR Sherlock: Those two. They all right?
Sherlock: Well, you know – they’ve had their ups and downs.
After a moment of dark screen, we are back in the narrow corridor in the house in Leinster Gardens. No time seems to have passed since we were last there, and Mary and John are still standing facing each other several feet apart. Now Sherlock turns away behind Mary.
Sherlock: Baker Street. Now.
Later, John opens the door of the living room at 221B and walks in, sighing quietly. Mary follows him more slowly up the stairs, with Sherlock behind her. John takes off his jacket and drops it onto the dining table. Mrs Hudson is in the kitchen but now hurries towards him worriedly.
MRS HUDSON: John.
MRS HUDSON: Mary!
MRS HUDSON : Oh, Sherlock! Oh, good gracious, you look terrible.
Sherlock: Get me some morphine from your kitchen. I’ve run out.
MRS HUDSON: I don’t have any morphine!
Sherlock: Then what exactly is the point of you?
MRS HUDSON: What is going on?
Watson: Bloody good question.
Sherlock: The Watsons are about to have a domestic, and fairly quickly, I hope, because we’ve got work to do.
Watson: Oh, I have a better question.
Watson: Is everyone I’ve ever met a psychopath?
Sherlock: Yes.
Sherlock: Good that we’ve settled that. Anyway, we ...
Watson: SHUT UP!
MRS HUDSON: Oh!
Watson: And stay shut up, because this is not funny.  Not this time.
Sherlock: I didn’t say it was funny.
Watson: You.
Watson: What have I ever done ... hmm? ... my whole life ... to deserve you?
Sherlock: Everything.
Watson: Sherlock, I’ve told you ...  ... shut up.
Sherlock: Oh, I mean it, seriously. Everything – everything you’ve ever done is what you did.
Watson: Sherlock, one more word and you will not need morphine.
Sherlock: You were a doctor who went to w*r.
Sherlock: You’re a man who couldn’t stay in the suburbs for more than a month without storming a crack den and b*ating up a junkie. Your best friend is a sociopath who solves crimes as an alternative to getting high.
Sherlock: That’s me, by the way.  Hello.
Sherlock: Even the landlady used to run a drug cartel.
MRS HUDSON: It was my husband’s cartel. I was just typing.
Sherlock: And exotic dancing.
MRS HUDSON: Sherlock Holmes, if you’ve been Youtube-ing ...
Sherlock: John, you are addicted to a certain lifestyle. You’re abnormally attracted to dangerous situations and people ...  ... so is it truly such a surprise that the woman you’ve fallen in love with conforms to that pattern?
Watson: But she wasn’t supposed to be like that.
Watson: Why is she like that?
Sherlock: Because you chose her.
Watson: Why is everything ...  ... always ...  ... MY FAULT?!
MRS HUDSON: Oh, the neighbours!
Sherlock: John, listen. Be calm and answer me.  What is she?
Watson: My lying wife?
Sherlock: No. What is she?
Watson: And the woman who’s carrying my child who has lied to me since the day I met her?
Sherlock: No. Not in this flat; not in this room. Right here, right now, what is she?
Watson: Okay.
Watson: Your way.
Watson: Always your way.
Watson: Sit.
MARY: Why?
Watson: Because that’s where they sit.
Watson: ... the people who come in here with their stories. Th-the clients – that’s all you are now, Mary. You’re a client. This is where you sit and talk ...  ... and this is where we sit and listen, then we decide if we want you or not.
THE PRESENT. In the sitting room of the Holmes’ cottage, Mary looks up from her book as John speaks.
Watson: So, are you okay?
MARY : Oh! Are we doing conversation today? It really is Christmas
The writing is somewhat faded. Mary closes the book and lets out a brief exasperated sound.)
MARY: Now?
MARY: Seriously? Months of silence and we’re gonna do this ...  ... now?
221B IN THE PAST. Sitting on the dining chair in front of Sherlock and John, Mary puts what looks like the same pen drive onto the table at the side of John’s chair, then withdraws her hand. Sherlock, his face in a grimace as if he is in pain, zooms in on the drive and the letters written on the side of it, although they appear much darker than they will be in the future.
Sherlock: ‘A.G.R.A.’ What’s that?
MARY: Er ... my initials.
MARY: Everything about who I was is on there.  If you love me, don’t read it in front of me.
Watson: Why?
MARY : Because you won’t love me when you’ve finished ...
MARY: ... and I don’t want to see that happen.
MARY: How much d’you know already?
Sherlock: By your skill set, you are – or were – an intelligence agent. Your accent is currently English but I suspect you are not. You’re on the run from something; you’ve used your skills to disappear; ...
Sherlock: ... Magnussen knows your secret, which is why you were going to k*ll him; and I assume you befriended Janine ...  ... in order to get close to him.
MARY: Oh – you can talk!
Watson: Ohhh. Look at you two.
Watson: You should have got married.
MARY: The stuff Magnussen has on me, I would go to prison for the rest of my life.
Watson: So you were just gonna k*ll him.
MARY: People like Magnussen should be k*lled. That’s why there are people like me.
Watson: Perfect So that’s what you were? An assassin?
Watson: How could I not see that?
MARY: You did see that.
MARY : ... and you married me.
MARY: Because he’s right.
MARY : It’s what you like.
Sherlock: So ... Mary ...
Sherlock: ... any documents that Magnussen has concerning yourself, you want ...  ... extracted and returned.
MARY: Why would you help me?
Sherlock: Because ... you saved my life.
Watson: Sor-sorry, what?
Sherlock: When I happened on you and Magnussen ...
Sherlock: ... you had a problem.
Sherlock: More specifically, you had a witness.
(Near the door, Sherlock’s familiar shadow drifts across the floor ...
... but it’s not actually in 221B. In the past, Sherlock looks carefully through the gap in the door to Magnusson’s penthouse living room and sees Magnussen kneeling on the floor with his head lowered and his hands raised while the black-clad assassin points a p*stol at him.)
MAGNUSSEN : What do you do now?
MAGNUSSEN : k*ll both of us?
Sherlock: The solution, of course, was simple. k*ll us both and leave.
Sherlock: However, sentiment got the better of you.
Sherlock: One precisely-calculated sh*t to incapacitate me ...
Sherlock: ... in the hope that it would bide you more time to negotiate my silence.
Sherlock: Of course, you couldn’t sh**t Magnussen.  On the night that both of us broke into the building, your own husband would become a suspect, so ...
Sherlock: ... you calculated ... that Magnussen ... would use the fact of your involvement rather than sharing the information with the police ... as is his M.O.
Sherlock: ... and then you left the way you came.
Sherlock: Have I missed anything?
Watson: How did she save your life?
Sherlock: She phoned the ambulance.
Watson: I phoned the ambulance.
Sherlock: She phoned first.
(In the past, Mary viciously lashes the end of her p*stol across Magnusson’s face and then immediately bends to pick up his phone from the floor. Even as she straightens up we hear three beeps as she types on it, not even looking at it. The number comes up on our screen in red:
999 EMERGENCY
OPERATOR : Emergency. Which service do you require?
Approaching sirens can be heard.
Sherlock: You didn’t find me for another five minutes. Left to you, I would have d*ed. The average arrival time for a London ambulance is ...
PARAMEDIC: Did somebody call an ambulance?
Sherlock: ... eight minutes.
Sherlock: Did you bring any morphine? I asked on the phone.
PARAMEDIC : We were told there was a sh**ting.
Sherlock: There was, last week ...
Sherlock: ... but I believe I’m bleeding internally and my pulse is very erratic.
Sherlock: You may need to re-start my heart on the way.
Watson: Come on, Sherlock. Come on, Sherlock.
Sherlock: John?
Sherlock: John – Magnussen is all that matters now. You can trust Mary. She saved my life.
Watson: She sh*t you.
Sherlock: Er, mixed messages, I grant you.
Watson: Sherlock? Sherlock.  All right, take him.
Watson: Got him?
THE PRESENT in the Holmes’ sitting room.
MARY: So, have you read it?
Watson: W-would you come here a moment?
MARY : No. Tell me. Have you?
Watson: Just ...
Watson: ... come here.
MARY: No, I’m fine.
Watson: I’ve thought long and hard about what I want to say to you.
Watson: These are prepared words, Mary.
Watson: I’ve chosen these words with care.
MARY: Okay.
Watson: The problems of your past are your business. The problems of your future ... are my privilege.
Watson: It’s all I have to say. It’s all I need to know.
Watson: No, I didn’t read it.
MARY : You don’t even know my name.
Watson: Is ‘Mary Watson’ good enough for you?
MARY : Yes!  Oh my God, yes.
Watson: Then it’s good enough for me, too.
MARY: Oh!
Watson: All this does not mean that I’m not still basically pissed off with you.
MARY : I know, I know.
Watson: I am very pissed off, and it will come out now and then.
MARY: I know, I know, I know.
Watson: You can mow the sodding lawn from now on.
MARY: I do mow the lawn.
Watson: No, I do it loads.
MARY: You really don’t.
Watson: I choose the baby’s name.
MARY: Not a chance.
Watson: Okay.
Outside the cottage, Mycroft and Sherlock are idly wandering along the path in the front garden towards the gate. Each of them is holding a lit cigarette.
MYCROFT: I’m glad you’ve given up on the Magnussen business.
Sherlock: Are you?
MYCROFT : I’m still curious, though. He’s hardly your usual kind of puzzle. Why do you ... hate him?
Sherlock: Because he att*cks people who are different and preys on their secrets. Why don’t you?
MYCROFT: He never causes too much damage to anyone important. He’s far too intelligent for that. He’s a business-man, that’s all, and occasionally useful to us. A necessary evil – not a dragon for you to slay.
Sherlock: A dragon slayer. Is that what you think of me?
MYCROFT : No.  It’s what you think of yourself.
MRS HOLMES : Are you two smoking?
MYCROFT: No!
Sherlock: It was Mycroft.
MYCROFT: I have, by the way, a job offer I should like you to decline.
Sherlock: I decline your kind offer.
MYCROFT: I shall pass on your regrets.
Sherlock: What was it?
MYCROFT: MI6 – they want to place you back into Eastern Europe. An undercover assignment that would prove fatal to you in, I think, about six months.
Sherlock: Then why don’t you want me to take it?
MYCROFT : It’s tempting ... but on balance you have more utility closer to home.
Sherlock: Utility How do I have utility?
MYCROFT: “Here be dragons.”
MYCROFT: This isn’t agreeing with me. I’m going in.
Sherlock: You need low tar. You still smoke like a beginner.
MYCROFT : Also, your loss would break my heart.
Sherlock: What the hell am I supposed to say to that?!
MYCROFT : “Merry Christmas”?
Sherlock: You hate Christmas.
MYCROFT : Yes.  Perhaps there was something in the punch.
Sherlock: Clearly. Go and have some more.
In the sitting room, John and Mary are still locked in a tight hug, swaying a little from side to side.
MARY: So you realise that, er, Sherlock got us out here to see his mum and dad for a reason?
Watson: His lovely mum and dad. A fine example of married life. I get that.
Watson: That is the thing with Sherlock – it’s always the unexpected.
Watson: Oi.  Oi.
Watson: Mary? Jesus Christ. Mary?
Watson: Sit down.
Watson: Mary, can you hear me?
Sherlock: Don’t drink Mary’s tea.
Sherlock: Oh, or the punch.
Watson: Sherlock?
Watson: Did you just drug my pregnant wife?
Sherlock: Don’t worry. Wiggins is an excellent chemist.
BILL: I calculated your wife’s dose meself. Won’t affect the little one. I’ll keep an eye on ’er.
Sherlock: He’ll monitor their recovery. It’s more or less his day job.
Watson: What the hell have you done?
Sherlock: ... A deal with the devil.
FLASHBACK. A blurry figure walks in through a door, closes it and then walks forward. At the far end of the room Sherlock is sitting at a small table which has a red tablecloth. He is wearing a hospital gown and has his morphine drip on a stand beside him. On the table in front of him is a plate with a part-finished meal on it. Some penne pasta and what looks like a cherry tomato remain. There is also a glass of water on the table. Sherlock chews and swallows his latest mouthful of food, not looking up as the other person walks closer. We now see that it is Magnussen.
MAGNUSSEN: Shouldn’t you be in hospital?
Sherlock: I am in hospital. This is the canteen.
MAGNUSSEN: Is it?
Sherlock: In my opinion, yes.
Sherlock: Have a seat.
MAGNUSSEN: Thank you.
Sherlock: I’ve been thinking about you.
MAGNUSSEN: I’ve been thinking about you.
Sherlock: Really?
Sherlock: I want to see Appledore, where you keep all the secrets, all the files, everything you’ve got on everyone. I want you to invite me.
MAGNUSSEN: What makes you think I’d be so careless?
Sherlock: Oh, I think you’re a lot more ‘careless’ than you let on.
MAGNUSSEN : Am I?
Sherlock: It’s the d*ad-eye stare that gives it away.
Sherlock: Except it’s not d*ad-eyed, is it?
Sherlock: You’re reading.
Sherlock: Portable Appledore.  How does it work?
Sherlock: Built-in flash drive?  4G wireless?
Sherlock: They’re just ordinary spectacles.
MAGNUSSEN: Yes – they are.
(Sherlock grimaces slightly, still looking down at the glasses. Magnussen looks at him. His vision is slightly blurred without his glasses on, but text appears in front of his eyes in red:
PRESSURE POINT: > MORPHINE
He lowers his head and smiles, then reaches across with one hand and flicks through the pasta on the plate with his fingers, unearthing a black olive. Sherlock continues to stare down at the glasses.)
MAGNUSSEN: You underestimate me, Mr Holmes.
Sherlock: Impress me, then. Show me Appledore.
MAGNUSSEN : Everything’s available for a price.
MAGNUSSEN: Are you making me an offer?
Sherlock: A Christmas present.
MAGNUSSEN: And what are you giving me for Christmas, Mr Holmes?
Sherlock: My brother.
THE PRESENT. In the Holmes’ kitchen, Sherlock is still looking down reflectively. John turns away from him.
Watson: Oh, Jesus.
Watson: Sherlock ...
Watson: ... please tell me you haven’t just gone out of your mind.
Sherlock: I’d rather keep you guessing.
Sherlock: Ah.  There’s our lift.
Very shortly afterwards, as the helicopter flies low past the front of the cottage, John walks down the path with Sherlock behind him holding the laptop under his left arm and a coat in his right hand. John goes through the gate as the helicopter lands in a field in front of the cottage.
Sherlock: Coming?
Watson: Where?
Sherlock: D’you want your wife to be safe?
Watson: Yeah, of course I do.
Sherlock: Good, because this is going to be incredibly dangerous.  One false move and we’ll have betrayed the security of the United Kingdom and be in prison for high treason. Magnussen is quite simply the most dangerous man we’ve ever encountered, and the odds are comprehensively stacked against us.
Watson: But it’s Christmas.
Sherlock: I feel the same.
Sherlock: Oh, you mean it’s actually Christmas. Did you bring your g*n as I suggested?
Watson: Why would I bring my g*n to your parents’ house for Christmas dinner?!
Sherlock: Is it in your coat?
Watson: Yes.
Sherlock: Off we go, then.
Watson: Where are we going?
Sherlock: Appledore.
APPLEDORE. In a large sitting room where one entire long wall is made of glass and looks out to the grounds, Magnussen lowers his whiskey glass at the sound of an approaching helicopter. The helicopter – which has the “CAM” logo on its side – flies down towards the house while Sherlock and John look down at it. They land on the grass not far from the house while Magnussen continues to sit on a long curved white leather sofa, not looking round to watch their arrival. A security man walks towards the helicopter while another one stands on the patio outside the house. The boys get out and walk towards the house and the helicopter takes off again and flies away. Shortly afterwards a security man leads the boys through an inside area which is lined with large green exotic plants, while another man follows behind. Magnussen is sitting on the sofa one level above them. He takes a drink from his glass as his men escort Sherlock and John into the room. Sherlock stops a couple of paces in front of the sofa while John stands a little way behind and to one side of him. Magnussen nods to his men and they turn and leave.
MAGNUSSEN : I would offer you a drink but it’s very rare and expensive.
Sherlock: Oh. It was you.
MAGNUSSEN: Yes, of course.
MAGNUSSEN: Very hard to find a pressure point on you, Mr Holmes.
Sherlock: Mm.
MAGNUSSEN: The drugs thing I never believed for a moment.
MAGNUSSEN: Anyway, you wouldn’t care if it was exposed, would you?
MAGNUSSEN : But look how you care about John Watson.
MAGNUSSEN: Your damsel in distress.
Watson: You ...  ... put me in a f*re ... for leverage?
MAGNUSSEN: Oh, I’d never let you burn, Doctor Watson.  I had people standing by.
MAGNUSSEN: I’m not a m*rder ... unlike your wife.
MAGNUSSEN: Let me explain how leverage works, Doctor Watson.
MAGNUSSEN : For those who understand these things, Mycroft Holmes is the most powerful man in the country. Well ... apart from me.
MAGNUSSEN: Mycroft’s pressure point is his junkie detective brother, Sherlock.
MAGNUSSEN: And Sherlock’s pressure point is his best friend, John Watson. John Watson’s pressure point is his wife. I own John Watson’s wife ...  ... I own Mycroft.  He’s what I’m getting for Christmas.
Sherlock: It’s an exchange, not a gift.
MAGNUSSEN: Forgive me, but ...  ... I already seem to have it.
Sherlock: It’s password protected.
Sherlock: In return for the password, you will give me any material in your possession pertaining to the woman I know as Mary Watson.
MAGNUSSEN: Oh, she’s bad, that one. So many d*ad people. You should see what I’ve seen.
Watson: I don’t need to see it.
MAGNUSSEN: You might enjoy it, though.
MAGNUSSEN: I enjoy it.
Sherlock: Then why don’t you show us?
MAGNUSSEN: Show you Appledore?
MAGNUSSEN: The secret vaults? Is that what you want?
Sherlock: I want everything you’ve got on Mary.
MAGNUSSEN: You know, I honestly expected something good.
Sherlock: Oh, I think you’ll find the contents of that laptop ...
MAGNUSSEN: ... include a GPS locator. By now, your brother will have noticed the theft, and security services will be converging on this house. Having arrived ...  ... they’ll find top secret information in my hands ...  ... and have every justification to search my vaults. They will discover further information of this kind and I’ll be imprisoned. You will be exonerated, and restored to your smelly little apartment to solve crimes with Mr and Mrs Psychopath.
MAGNUSSEN : Mycroft has been looking for this opportunity for a long time.  He’ll be a very, very proud big brother.
Sherlock: The fact that you know it’s going to happen isn’t going to stop it.
MAGNUSSEN: Then why am I smiling?
MAGNUSSEN: Ask me.
Watson: Why are you smiling?
MAGNUSSEN : Because Sherlock Holmes has made one enormous mistake which will destroy the lives of everyone he loves ...
MAGNUSSEN: ... and everything he holds dear.
MAGNUSSEN: Let me show you the Appledore vaults.
MAGNUSSEN: The entrance to my vaults. This is where I keep you all.
Watson: Okay – so where are the vaults, then?
MAGNUSSEN : Vaults? What vaults? There are no vaults beneath this building.
MAGNUSSEN: They’re all in here.
MAGNUSSEN: The Appledore vaults are my Mind Palace. You know about Mind Palaces, don’t you, Sherlock?
MAGNUSSEN: How to store information so you never forget it – by picturing it. I just sit here, I close my eyes ...  ... and down I go to my vaults.
MAGNUSSEN : I can go anywhere inside my vaults ...
MAGNUSSEN: ... my memories.
MAGNUSSEN: I’ll look at the files on Mrs Watson.
MAGNUSSEN: Mmm, ah.  This is one of my favourites.  Oh, it’s so exciting.
MAGNUSSEN: All those wet jobs for the CIA. Ooh!
MAGNUSSEN: She’s gone a bit ... freelance now. Bad girl.
MAGNUSSEN: Ah, she is so wicked.
MAGNUSSEN: I can really see why you like her.
MAGNUSSEN: You see?
Watson: So there are no documents. You don’t actually have anything here.
MAGNUSSEN: Oh, sometimes I send out for something ...  ... if I really need it ...
MAGNUSSEN: ... but mostly I just remember it all.
Watson: I don’t understand.
MAGNUSSEN: You should have that on a T-shirt.
Watson: You just remember it all?
MAGNUSSEN : It’s all about knowledge. Everything is. Knowing is owning.
Watson: But if you just know it, then you don’t have proof.
MAGNUSSEN: Proof? What would I need proof for? I’m in news, you moron. I don’t have to prove it – I just have to print it.
MAGNUSSEN : Speaking of news, you’ll both be heavily featured tomorrow – trying to sell state secrets to me.
MAGNUSSEN: Let’s go outside. They’ll be here shortly.
MAGNUSSEN: Can’t wait to see you arrested.
Watson: Sherlock, do we have a plan?
Watson: Sherlock.
(When Sherlock still doesn’t move, John turns and walks away. Sherlock shuts his eyes, screwing them closed with a look of despair.
Magnussen walks across the sitting room to a glass door which leads out onto a patio. He goes outside and looks around. The sky is darkening, so apparently it is early evening. John follows him out onto the patio.)
MAGNUSSEN: They’re taking their time, aren’t they?
Watson: I still don’t understand.
MAGNUSSEN : And there’s the back of the T-shirt.
Watson: You just know things. How does that work?
MAGNUSSEN : I just love your little soldier face. I’d like to punch it.
MAGNUSSEN: Bring it over here a minute.
MAGNUSSEN: Come on.
MAGNUSSEN : For Mary. Bring me your face.
MAGNUSSEN: Lean forward a bit and stick your face out.
MAGNUSSEN : Please?
MAGNUSSEN: Now, can I flick it?
MAGNUSSEN: Can I flick your face?
MAGNUSSEN: I just love doing this.
MAGNUSSEN: I could do it all day.
MAGNUSSEN: It works like this, John. I know who Mary hurt and k*lled.
MAGNUSSEN : I know where to find people who hate her.
MAGNUSSEN: I know where they live; I know their phone numbers.
MAGNUSSEN: All in my Mind Palace – all of it.
MAGNUSSEN : I could phone them right now and tear your whole life down – and I will ...
MAGNUSSEN : ... unless you let me flick your face.
MAGNUSSEN : This is what I do to people. This is what I do to whole countries ...
MAGNUSSEN: ... just because I know.
MAGNUSSEN: Can I do your eye now?
MAGNUSSEN: See if you can keep it open, hmm?
MAGNUSSEN: Come on. For Mary. Keep it open.
Watson: Sherlock?
Sherlock: Let him. I’m sorry.
Sherlock: Just ... let him.
MAGNUSSEN : Come on. Eye open.
MAGNUSSEN : It’s difficult, isn’t it?  Janine managed it once.  She makes the funniest noises.
MYCROFT’s VOICE : Sherlock Holmes and John Watson.
MYCROFT’s VOICE : Stand away from that man.
MAGNUSSEN: Here we go, Mr Holmes!
Sherlock: To clarify: Appledore’s vaults only exist in your mind, nowhere else, just there.
MAGNUSSEN : They’re not real. They never have been.
MYCROFT’s VOICE : Sherlock Holmes and John Watson. Step away.
MAGNUSSEN : It’s fine! They’re harmless!
POLICE OFFICER : Target is not armed. I repeat, target is not armed.
Watson: Sherlock, what do we do?
MAGNUSSEN : Nothing!  There’s nothing to be done! Oh, I’m not a villain. I have no evil plan. I’m a business-man, acquiring assets. You happen to be one of them!
MAGNUSSEN: Sorry. No chance for you to be a hero this time, Mr Holmes.
MYCROFT’s VOICE : Sherlock Holmes and John Watson, stand away from that man. Do it now.
Sherlock: Oh, do your research.
Sherlock: I’m not a hero ...
Sherlock: ... I’m a high-functioning sociopath.
Sherlock: Merry Christmas!
POLICE OFFICER : Man down, man down.
Sherlock: Get away from me, John!  Stay well back!
Watson: Christ, Sherlock!
MYCROFT : Stand f*re!
MYCROFT’s VOICE : Do not f*re on Sherlock Holmes! Do not f*re!
Watson: Oh, Christ, Sherlock.
Sherlock: Give my love to Mary.
Sherlock: Tell her she’s safe now.
(He takes one final look at his best friend and then slowly turns towards the marksmen and the helicopter and begins to sink slowly to his knees. John holds his own hands high, his eyes full of despair. Sherlock kneels on the patio, his hands raised and his face anguished. The beams from the laser sights travel over his face as he stares ahead of himself, knowing that he has done something that no one can save him from.
In the helicopter, Mycroft takes off his headset and stares in equal despair towards his brother.)
MYCROFT : Oh, Sherlock. What have you done?
DAY TIME. Mycroft stands at the glass wall of a large meeting room. It may be the same room in which the parliamentary commission was held at the beginning of the episode. He has his back to the room and is looking outside. A suited man stands nearby to his right.
MYCROFT: As my colleague is fond of remarking, this country sometimes needs a blunt instrument. Equally, it sometimes needs a dagger – a scalpel wielded with precision and without remorse.
MYCROFT: There will always come a time when we need Sherlock Holmes.
SIR EDWIN: If this is some expression of familial sentiment ...
MYCROFT: Don’t be absurd. I am not given to outbursts of brotherly compassion.
MYCROFT: You know what happened to the other one.
MYCROFT: In any event, there is no prison in which we could incarcerate Sherlock without causing a riot on a daily basis. The alternative, however ...
MYCROFT: ... would require your approval.
LADY SMALLWOOD: Hardly merciful, Mr Holmes.
MYCROFT: Regrettably, Lady Smallwood, my brother is a m*rder.
AIRFIELD. DAY TIME. A black car drives along the runway towards where an executive jet is stationary on the tarmac. Standing near the nose of the plane, Sherlock, Mycroft and a security man watch the car pull up. Mary gets out of the rear door nearest the plane and John from the other. Smiling, Mary walks towards Sherlock, John following behind.
Sherlock: You will look after him for me, won’t you?
MARY: Oh ...  ... don’t worry. I’ll keep him in trouble.
Sherlock: That’s my girl.
Sherlock: Since this is likely to be the last conversation I’ll have with John Watson ...
Sherlock: ... would you mind if we took a moment?
Watson: So, here we are.
Sherlock: William Sherlock Scott Holmes.
Watson: Sorry?
Sherlock: That’s the whole of it – if you’re looking for baby names.
Watson: No, we’ve had a scan. We’re pretty sure it’s a girl.
Sherlock: Oh.  Okay.
Watson: Yeah.  Actually, I can’t think of a single thing to say.
Sherlock: No, neither can I.
Watson: The game is over.
Sherlock: The game is never over, John ...  ... but there may be some new players now. It’s okay. The East Wind takes us all in the end.
Watson: What’s that?
Sherlock: It’s a story my brother told me when we were kids. The East Wind – this terrifying force that lays waste to all in its path.
Sherlock: It seeks out the unworthy ...  ... and plucks them from the Earth. That was generally me.
Watson: Nice
Sherlock: He was a rubbish big brother.
Watson: So what about you, then?  Where are you actually going now?
Sherlock: Oh, some undercover work in Eastern Europe.
Watson: For how long?
Sherlock: Six months, my brother estimates. He’s never wrong.
Watson: And then what?
Sherlock: Who knows?
Sherlock: John, there’s something ... I should say; I-I’ve meant to say always and then never have. Since it’s unlikely we’ll ever meet again, I might as well say it now.
Sherlock: Sherlock is actually a girl’s name.
Watson: It’s not.
Sherlock: It was worth a try.
Watson: We’re not naming our daughter after you.
Sherlock: I think it could work.
Sherlock: To the very best of times, John.
Shortly afterward the plane taxies along the runway. Sherlock sits inside looking out of one of the right-hand windows. Mary and John stand by the car, holding hands and watching from the left-hand side of the plane as it lifts into the sky. Sherlock continues to gaze out of the window, and the plane flies off into the distance.
The scene fades to black and the familiar drum b*at of the beginning of the show’s theme tune begins ...
... but before the actual music can start, the screen goes to static. After a moment it resolves into a football match on the SPORTS 1 channel. The score shows SFC 0 – 0 INTER.  Men’s voices can be heard shouting encouragingly as the commentary plays over the footage.
COMMENTATOR: Smith brings it inside. This looks good.
COMMENTATOR : Cassandra comes in for a sh*t ...
COMMENTATOR : Oh, he missed it!
CUSTOMER: Oi! What’s up with the telly? There’s something wrong with the telly, mate!
ANOTHER CUSTOMER: Give it a whack, then!
CUSTOMER: Who’s that?
VOICE : Did you miss me?
VOICE: Did you miss me?
In 221B, Mrs Hudson is vacuuming the living room. She has the TV switched on and the voice comes over the speaker.
VOICE : Did you miss me? Did you miss me?
At Bart’s, Molly stares in horror from the lab into a room next door which has a TV playing on a table.
VOICE : Did you miss me?
In the conference room we saw earlier, Lady Smallwood stares up from her seat, apparently looking at a TV screen.
LADY SMALLWOOD: How is this possible?
SIR EDWIN : We don’t know, but it’s on every screen in the country – every screen simultaneously.
LADY SMALLWOOD: Has the Prime Minister been told?  And Mycroft?
MYCROFT : But that’s not possible.
MYCROFT: That is simply not possible.
Watson: What’s happened?
In the executive jet, Sherlock is still looking out of the window.
MAN’s VOICE : Sir?
MAN: It’s your brother.
Sherlock: Mycroft?
MYCROFT’s VOICE : Hello, little brother. How is the exile going?
Sherlock: I’ve only been gone four minutes.
MYCROFT : Well, I certainly hope you’ve learned your lesson. As it turns out, you’re needed.
Sherlock: Oh, for God’s sake. Make up your mind. Who needs me this time?
VOICE : Did you miss me? Did you miss me?
(Mycroft looks to the front of the car where a small TV screen is set into the dashboard. On the screen is a still photograph of Jim Moriarty facing the camera and smiling. To the left of his mouth is the message:
MISS ME?
The jaw of Jim’s photograph has been animated so that it moves up and down a little as the voice repeats over and over.)
VOICE : Did you miss me? Did you miss me?
In Piccadilly Circus in London, the huge screens above the street are each filled with the same part-animated image of Jim’s smiling face with the message beside it, and the voice plays over speakers.
VOICE : Did you miss me? Did you miss me?
VOICE : Did you miss me? Did you miss me?
In the back of the car, as the voice plays on, Mycroft speaks a single word into his phone in response to Sherlock’s question.
MYCROFT : England.
MARY: But he’s d*ad. I mean, you told me he was d*ad, Moriarty.
Watson: Absolutely. He blew his own brains out.
MARY: So how can he be back?
Watson: Well, if he is ... he’d better wrap up warm.
Watson: There’s an East Wind coming.
The familiar drum b*at starts up again and this time the theme tune follows and the closing credits roll to the end.
And then ...
As the Hartswood, BBC and Masterpiece logos fade, Jim Moriarty, now no longer animated but live and standing facing the right, looks towards the camera straight-faced and speaks in his normal voice.
JIM: Miss me?MYCROFT : What you’re about to see is classified beyond top secret.
MYCROFT: Is that quite clear?  Don’t minute any of this.
MYCROFT: Once beyond these walls, you must never speak of it. A D-notice has been slapped on the entire incident. Only those within this room – code names Antarctica, Langdale, Porlock and Love – will ever know the whole truth.
MYCROFT: As far as everyone else is concerned, going to the Prime Minister and way beyond, Charles Augustus ... Are you tweeting?!
Sherlock: No.
MYCROFT: Well, that’s what it looks like.
Sherlock: Of course I’m not tweeting. Why would I be tweeting?
MYCROFT: Give me that.
Sherlock: What? No. Get off. What are you doing?
Sherlock: Get off. What ...?
MYCROFT : Give it here.
MYCROFT: “Back on terra firma.”
Sherlock: Don’t read them out.
MYCROFT: “Free as a bird.”
Sherlock: God, you’re such a spoilsport.
MYCROFT : Will you take this matter seriously, Sherlock?
Sherlock: I am taking it seriously. What makes you think I’m not taking it seriously?
MYCROFT : “Hashtag OhWhatABeautifulMorning.”
Sherlock: Look, not so long ago I was on a mission that meant certain death – my death – and now I’m back, in a nice warm office with my big brother and ... Are those ginger nuts?
MYCROFT : Oh, God.
Sherlock: Love ginger nuts.
LADY SMALLWOOD: Our doctor said you were clean.
Sherlock: I am, utterly.  No need for stimulants now, remember? I have work to do.
SIR EDWIN: You’re high as a kite!
Sherlock: Natural high, I assure you. Totally natural. I’m just ...  ... ♪ glad to be aliiiiiive! ♪
Sherlock: What shall we do next?  What’s your name?
VIVIAN : Vi-Vivian.
Sherlock: What would you do, Vivian?
VIVIAN: Pardon?
Sherlock: Well, it’s a lovely day. Go for a stroll?
Sherlock: Make a paper aeroplane? Have an ice lolly?
VIVIAN: Ice lolly, I suppose.
Sherlock: Ice lolly it is! What’s your favourite?
VIVIAN : Well, really, I shouldn’t ...
Sherlock: Go on.
VIVIAN: Do they still do Mivvis?
LADY SMALLWOOD : Mr Holmes.
MYCROFT and Sherlock: Yes?
LADY SMALLWOOD: We do need to get on.
MYCROFT : Yes, of course.
Sherlock: Do your research.
Sherlock: I’m not a hero. I’m a high functioning sociopath.
(The footage moves to the headcam of an operative nearer to the patio. As someone runs across the camera, very briefly blocking out the view, Sherlock can be seen with his hand still lowered, and a gunshot rings out. Magnussen falls backwards and Sherlock can be seen dropping John’s pistol and instantly raising his hands. Behind him, John stares at Magnussen and, for a moment, starts to move towards him.
The footage jumps back a second or two.)
Sherlock: ... sociopath.
Sherlock: ... sociopath.
Sherlock: I see. Who is supposed to have shot him, then?
SIR EDWIN: Some over-eager squaddie with an itchy trigger finger, that’s who.
Sherlock: That’s not what happened at all.
MYCROFT: It is now.
LADY SMALLWOOD: Remarkable. How did you do it?
SIR EDWIN: We have some very talented people working here. If James Moriarty can hack every TV screen in the land, rest assured we have the tech to, er ... doctor a bit of security footage.
SIR EDWIN: That is now the official version; the version anyone we want to will see.
LADY SMALLWOOD: No need to go to the trouble of getting some sort of official pardon. You’re off the hook, Mr Holmes. You’re home and dry.
Sherlock: Okay, cheers.
LADY SMALLWOOD: Obviously there’s unfinished business. Moriarty.
Sherlock: I told you. Moriarty’s dead.
LADY SMALLWOOD: You say he filmed that video message before he died.
Sherlock: Yes.
LADY SMALLWOOD: You also say you know what he’s going to do next. What does that mean?
SIR EDWIN: Perhaps that’s all there is to it.  Perhaps he was just trying to frighten you.
Sherlock: No, no. He would never be that disappointing.  He’s planned something; something long-term; something that would take effect if he never made it off that rooftop alive. Posthumous revenge. No – better than that. Posthumous game.
LADY SMALLWOOD: We brought you back to deal with this. What are you going to do?
Sherlock: Wait.
LADY SMALLWOOD: “Wait”?!
Sherlock: Of course wait. I’m the target. Targets wait. Look – whatever’s coming, whatever he’s lined up, I’ll know when it begins.
Sherlock: I always know when the game is on. D’you know why?
LADY SMALLWOOD : Why?
Sherlock: Because I love it.
OPENING CREDITS.
Blue-lit water can be seen and heard rippling throughout the following scene.
Sherlock: There was once a merchant in the famous market at Baghdad. One day he saw a stranger looking at him in surprise ...
Sherlock: ... and he knew that the stranger was Death. Pale and trembling, the merchant fled the marketplace and made his way many, many miles to the city of Samarra, for there he was sure Death could not find him.
Sherlock: But when at last he came to Samarra, the merchant saw, waiting for him, the grim figure of Death. “Very well,” said the merchant. “I give in. I am yours.”
Sherlock: “But tell me: why did you look surprised when you saw me this morning in Baghdad?” “Because,” said Death, “I had an appointment with you tonight – in Samarra.”
(A shark swims up the screen, transitioning the scene to ...
221B BAKER STREET. In the living room, Sherlock stabs his multi-tool knife down into a large pile of letters on the mantelpiece.
Sherlock: If this gets any better, I’m gonna get two knives.
(He turns to where John is sitting at the dining table typing a new blog entry entitled “221Back!” It reads:
And we’re back! Sorry I haven’t updated the blog for such a long time but things
really have been very busy. You’ll have seen on the news about how Sherlock
recovered the Mona Lisa. He described it as “an utterly dreary case” and was
much more interested in the case of a missing horseshoe and how it was
connected to a bright blue deckchair on Brighton beach.
I’ll try to write everything up when I get chance but it’s not been missing portraits
and horseshoes that have taken up my time.
I’m going to be a Dad.
I mean, I thought I’d spent the last few years being a Dad to Sherlock, but it
really doesn’t compare. The baby runs all of our lives. (Maybe not THAT different
to Sherlock then!) If I’m not changing nappies, I’m buying nappies. I’ve fought in
Afghanistan and my best friend once faked his own death but none of that
. It’s a terrifying and amazing and the biggest adventure I’ve been
The entry ends there.)
[Thanks to Glenien for the transcript of the blog entry.
]
Watson: It pays to advertise.
MARY: So, what about Moriarty, then?
Sherlock: Ooh, I have a plan.
Sherlock: I’m going to monitor the underworld – every quiver of the web will tell me when the spider makes his move.
Watson: Basically your ‘plan’ is just to sit there solving crimes like you always do.
Sherlock: Awesome, isn’t it?!
A montage of client scenes begins.
FEMALE CLIENT: He drowned, Mr Holmes.
(While the client sits on a dining chair, John’s later blog entry drifts across the screen reading:
Dusty Death
I won’t name the client out of respect
but she came to us because of her late
husband. His body was recovered from
the sea near Falmouth...
Sherlock is pacing back and forth in front of the fireplace, looking at his phone. John sits in his chair with Mary perched on the arm.)
FEMALE CLIENT: That’s what we thought but when they opened up his lungs ...
MARY: Yes?
FEMALE CLIENT: Sand.
Sherlock: Superficial.
On another occasion Sherlock sits in his chair holding a pair of Mars binoculars to his eyes while he peers at a small plastic bag containing a dark pink item held in pieces of ice.
John’s blog entry drifts across the screen:
Mr Hatherley came straight round to Baker
Street in a terrible state. He was white as a
sheet and bleeding from an awful wound in
his hand. Exactly how he came by this wound
was at first confusing...
Still holding the binoculars in place over his eyes, Sherlock calls out.
Sherlock: Come back! It’s the wrong thumb!
On another occasion photographs are scattered over the dining room table and the Mars binoculars lie on top of some of them. John’s blog entry reads:
The Duplicate Man
How could Dennis Parkinson be in two places at
the same time? And murdered in one of them?
Watson: Sherlock ...
Sherlock: It’s never twins.
On another occasion Sherlock sits in his chair with his laptop open on his knees. He’s busy on his phone at the same time. Mary is sitting in John’s chair holding a mug and rubbing her tummy while John stands at the fireplace.
Sherlock: Hopkins, arrest Wilson. Dimmock, look in the lymph nodes.
HOPKINS : Wilson?!
DIMMOCK : Lymph nodes?!
MARY: Sherlock ...
Sherlock: Yes. You may have nothing but a limbless torso but there’ll still be traces of ink left in the lymph nodes under the armpits. If your mystery corpse had tattoos, the signs’ll be there.
(John’s later blog entry appears under Dimmock’s Skype window and reads:
The Circus Torso
A limbless body found
decomposing inside a trunk in left
luggage office in Waterloo station
couldn’t be identified...
A second blog entry under Hopkins’ Skype window reads:
The Canary Trainer
Andrew Wilson was an unusual
man with an unusual hobby.
He seemed to have no connection
with the man whose life was so
abruptly ended one freezing night
in November...
DIMMOCK: Bloody hell! Is that a guess?
Sherlock: I never guess.
MARY: Sherlock ...
HOPKINS: So he’s the killer? The canary trainer?
Sherlock: ’Course he’s the killer.
HOPKINS: Didn’t see that coming.
Sherlock: Hm, naturally.
Watson: Sherlock, you can’t go on spinning plates like this.
Sherlock: That’s it! The place was spinning.
On another occasion Sherlock walks across the room checking his phone while he talks to a man sitting on a dining room chair.
Sherlock: The heart medication you are taking is known to cause bouts of amnesia.
(John’s blog entry reads:
The Cardiac Arrest
Joel Fentiman was found strangled in the
bedsit he shared with his brother. They had
always got on well and there was no sign that
this situation had changed...
Mr FENTIMAN: Yes, um ... I think so. Why?
Sherlock: Because the fingerprints on your brother’s neck are your own.
Later, another blog entry drifts across the screen:
... we could never have known there
was a potential assassin lurking close by.
An assassin who turned out to be...
John giggles as he leads Sherlock up the stairs at Baker Street towards the living room.
Watson: A jellyfish?!
Sherlock: I know.
Watson: You can’t arrest a jellyfish!
Sherlock: Well, you could try.
Watson: We did try.
Watson: Oh God.
Sherlock: Mary?
Watson: Fifty-nine missed calls.
Sherlock: We’re in a lot of trouble.
Not long afterwards, Mary is in the back seat of a car groaning and clutching her abdomen. Her dress is pulled high up her legs.
MARY: Ow! Oh my God. Oh my God!
Watson: Relax. It’s got two syllables ...
MARY: I’m a nurse, darling. I think I know what to do.
Watson: Come on then, come on.
MARY: Re...
Watson: ...lax.
MARY : No, just drive! Please, God, just drive! God, drive!
Watson: Sherlock. Mary!
Sherlock: That’s it, Mary. Re...
MARY : Don’t you start.
Sherlock: ...lax.
MARY: John?  John, I think you have to pull over.
Watson: Mary, Mary ...
MARY: Pull Over!
Sherlock: Oh my God.
At John and Mary’s home, a flashbulb pops. Mary and John are sitting on the sofa, Mary cradling their new daughter. Helium balloons are floating on strings behind the sofa and there are gift bags and flowers on the coffee table in front of the family, and a large white teddy bear beside the sofa. A glass of champagne is also on the table. John has his arm around his wife while Mary is holding her daughter’s hand and the new parents are smiling as they pose for the photograph. Standing at the other side of the table, Molly Hooper is drinking from a glass of champagne and Mrs Hudson is taking another photograph with her camera.
MRS HUDSON: Has that come out?
MRS HUDSON: They never come out when I take them!
MOLLY : Let’s have a look.
MRS HUDSON: Aww. She’s so beautiful.
MOLLY: Have another go.
MRS HUDSON : What about a name?
Watson: Catherine.
MARY: Uh, yeah, we’ve gone off that.
Watson: Have we?
MARY: Yeah.
Watson: Oh.
Sherlock: Well, you know what I think.
JOHN and MARY : It’s not a girl’s name.
Watson: Molly, Mrs H. We would love you to be godparents.
MOLLY : Oh!
Watson: If you ...
MOLLY: Really?
MRS HUDSON: So lovely!
(As the two women continue to make appreciative noises, John stands up while Molly goes to the sofa to sit down next to Mary. John walks over towards Sherlock, who is texting:
Fresh paint to
disguise another smell.
He sends the message.)
Watson: And, uh ...
Watson: ... you, too, Sherlock?
Sherlock: You too what?
Watson: Godfather? We’d like you to be godfather.
(Sherlock is now texting:
Odd socks?
Arrest the brother in law.
He sends that text and starts another one while talking.)
Sherlock: God is a ludicrous fiction dreamt up by inadequates who abnegate all responsibility to an invisible magic friend.
(His latest message reads:
If dog can’t swim,
neighbour is the killer.
John looks away briefly, then steps closer.)
Watson: Yeah, but there’ll be cake. Will you do it?
Sherlock: I’ll get back to you.
Some weeks later, an elderly vicar stands at the font in a church. Mary and John stand near him, Mary cradling the baby, and Greg, Mrs Hudson, Sherlock and Molly are at the other side of the font. An older couple stand behind them. Could this be the famous Stella and Ted, ready to give ‘love and many big squishy cuddles’ to the new baby?! Sherlock is still busy on his phone.
VICAR: Father, we ask you to send your blessings on this water ...  ... and sanctify it for our use this day, in Christ’s name.
VICAR: Now, what name have you given your daughter?
MARY: Rosamund Mary.
Sherlock: Rosamund?
MOLLY : Means ‘rose of the world.’ Rosie for short.
MOLLY: Didn’t you get John’s text?
Sherlock: No. I delete his texts. I delete any text that begins, ‘Hi.’
MOLLY: No idea why people think you’re incapable of human emotion.
MOLLY : Sorry.  Phone.
VICAR: And now, godparents ...
VICAR ... are you ready to help the parents of this child in their duties as Christian parents?
MOLLY and MRS HUDSON : We are.
SIRI: Sorry, I didn’t catch that.
SIRI : Please repeat the question.
A FEW MONTHS LATER. 221B BAKER STREET. LIVING ROOM. Standing in front of the fireplace wearing his camel coloured dressing gown, Sherlock sighs in exasperation.
Sherlock: As ever, Watson, you see but do not observe.
Sherlock: To you, the world remains an impenetrable mystery whereas, to me, it is an open book. Hard logic versus romantic whimsy. That is your choice. You fail to connect actions to their consequences. Now, for the last time ...  ... if you want to keep the rattle ...
Sherlock: ... do not throw the rattle, hm?
BUS. John sits on a sideways-facing seat with his eyes closed. He wakes when his phone chirps an alert, and gets it out of his pocket to look at the message:
Baker Street? Tomorrow five PM?
Lestrade says he has a belter.
He smiles briefly, then looks thoughtful before he looks at the next message:
Mary says it’s fine.
He chuckles and puts the phone away. A couple of people walk along the gangway heading for the rear of the bus and John notices a pretty woman with long red hair sitting a few feet to his right on a forward-facing seat. She meets his gaze and smiles at him. John briefly returns her smile and looks away but then glances back and sees that she’s still smiling at him. A little self-consciously he runs his right hand over his hair and she lowers her eyes and looks at a piece of paper in her hand, still with a smile on her face. Someone rings the bell to alert the bus to halt at the next stop and John stands and picks up his briefcase, casting one more glance at the smiling woman. The bus pulls up at the bus stop and several passengers, including John, get off. He walks along the side of the bus and then turns to look in the side window, seeing his face clearly reflected in the glass. He has a large plastic daisy-like flower tucked behind his left ear.
He flashes back to earlier that day where he was leaning over Rosie unfastening her nappy as she lay on a changing mat on top of a bureau in her bedroom.
Watson: All right. Good girl. Good girl. Good girl.
Watson: I’d better finish this, hadn’t I?
(He tucks the flower’s stem behind his left ear.
In the present, John takes the flower from his ear, smiling ruefully to himself as the bus pulls away.)
BAKER STREET LIVING ROOM. John walks in to see Sherlock sitting in his chair, wearing his camel dressing gown and with his hands steepled just under his mouth. Greg is standing just inside the door.
LESTRADE: Hey.
Watson: Afternoon. He says you’ve got a good one, Greg.
LESTRADE: Oh yeah.
FLASHBACK. A LARGE PRIVATE HOUSE. NIGHT TIME.
LESTRADE : It was David Welsborough’s fiftieth birthday.
DAVID: God, fifty! Where did it go?! I know for a fact I was only twenty-one this time last week!
EMMA: Yeah, well that’s impossible, ’cause that’s before you met me and ...
DAVID: Well, no ...
THE WELSBOROUGHS : ... there never was such a time!
EMMA: She’s looking at me disapprovingly again.
DAVID: No, she’s just jealous.
EMMA: Yeah, well, I think we both are.
DAVID: Ooh.
EMMA: No, no, David. Come on, you promised.
DAVID : Oh, no ...
DAVID: Oh, it’s a Skype call.
EMMA: Oh, then, that’s ... must be Charlie. At least he’s phoning, I suppose.
DAVID: Oh, look! Hello!
CHARLIE: Hey, Dad!
CHARLIE: Happy birthday! Sorry to miss your party but, uh ...  ... travel broadens the mind, right?
DAVID : No, picture’s frozen.
CHARLIE : Yeah, signal’s rubbish, but I can still hear you.
DAVID: Why-why is it rubbish? Where are you?
EMMA: How is he? Is he eating? Ask him if he’s eating.
DAVID: No, shh.
MAN’s VOICE : David! Emma!
DAVID : No, no, hang on a sec. I’ll-I’ll find somewhere quieter.
DAVID: So, Charlie, where are you? ... Are you there?
CHARLIE : Sorry, I’m here. I’m just a bit ...
DAVID: You all right?
CHARLIE : It’s nothing. Probably just the altitude.
DAVID: Altitude?
CHARLIE : I’m in Tibet! Didn’t you see the mountains?
DAVID: Look, never mind mountains. Your mother wants to know if you’re eating properly.
CHARLIE : Listen, Dad, could you do me a favour?
DAVID: What?
CHARLIE : Could you just check something on my car?
DAVID : Your car?!
CHARLIE : It’s to settle a bet. The guys here don’t believe I’ve got a Power Ranger stuck to the bonnet. Could you take a photo and send it?
DAVID: Er, yes, I can do that.
DAVID: All done. You got it? ... Charlie?
Back at Baker Street, Sherlock is still sitting with his eyes closed and his hands steepled under his mouth.
LESTRADE: A week later ...
Watson: Yeah?
LESTRADE: ... something really weird happens.
LESTRADE: Drunk driver – he’s totally smashed, the cops are chasing him ...
LESTRADE: ... and he turns into the drive of the Welsborough house to try and get away. Unfortunately ...
.
At Baker Street, Sherlock’s eyes are closed as he envisions the scene.)
LESTRADE : The drunk guy survived; they managed to pull him out, but when they put the fire out and examined the parked car ...
(There’s a burned skeleton in the driver’s seat. It seems to be covered with the remnants of some kind of material.
John leans forward in his chair.)
Watson: Whose body?
LESTRADE : Charlie Welsborough, the son.
Watson: What?
LESTRADE: The son who was in Tibet. DNA all checks out. The night of the party, the car’s empty, then a week later the dead boy’s found at the wheel.
LESTRADE: Yeah, I thought it’d tickle you.
Watson: Have you got a lab report?
LESTRADE: Yeah, Charlie Welsborough’s the son of a Cabinet minister ...
LESTRADE: ... so I’m under a lot of pressure to get results.
Sherlock: Who cares about that? Tell me about the seats.
Watson: The seats?
Sherlock: Yes. The car seats.
Sherlock: Made of vinyl ... two different types of vinyl present.
Sherlock: Was it his own car?
LESTRADE: Yeah. Not flash – he was a student.
Sherlock: Well, that’s suggestive.
LESTRADE: Why?
Sherlock: Vinyl’s cheaper than leather.
LESTRADE : Er, yeah, right.
Watson: There’s something else.
Sherlock: Yes?
Watson: According to this, Charlie Welsborough had already been dead for a week.
(There’s a brief flashback of the car exploding and the skeleton with the melted material on it.
Sherlock stares at John with a delighted smile forming on his face.)
Sherlock: What?
Watson: The body in the car – dead for a week.
Sherlock: Oh, this is a good one.  Is it my birthday? You want help?
LESTRADE : Yes, please.
Sherlock: One condition.
LESTRADE: Okay.
Sherlock: Take all the credit.
Sherlock: It gets boring if I just solve them all.
LESTRADE: Yeah, you say that, but then John blogs about it and you get all the credit anyway.
Watson: Yeah, he’s got a point.
LESTRADE: Which makes me look like some kind of prima donna who insists on getting credit for something he didn’t do.
Watson: Oh, I think you’ve hit a sore spot, Sherlock.
LESTRADE: ... like I’m some kind of credit junkie.
Watson: Definitely a sore spot.
LESTRADE : So you take all the glory, thanks ...
Sherlock: Okay.
LESTRADE: ... thanks all the same.  Look, just solve the bloody thing, will you? It’s driving me nuts.
Sherlock: Anything you say, Giles.
Sherlock: Just kidding.
Sherlock: What is it?
Watson: Greg.
Sherlock: What?
Watson: Greg.
Sherlock: Oh.
Watson: It’s obvious, though, isn’t it, what happened?
Sherlock: John, you amaze me. You know what happened?
Watson: Not a clue. It’s just you normally say that at this point.
Sherlock: Mm. Well, then ...
Sherlock: ... let’s help you solve your little problem, Greg.
LESTRADE: You hear that?
Watson: I know!
LESTRADE : So how’s it going then, fatherhood?
Watson: Oh, good, great! Yeah, amazing.
LESTRADE: Getting any sleep?
Watson: Christ, no.
LESTRADE: You’re at the beck and call of a screaming, demanding baby, woken up at all hours to obey his every whim.  Must feel very different.
Sherlock: I’m sorry, what?
Watson: Yes, well, you know how it is. All you do is clean up their mess, pat them on the head.
Sherlock: Are you two having a little joke?
Watson: Never a word of thanks. Can’t even tell people’s faces apart.
Sherlock: This is a joke, isn’t it?
LESTRADE: Then it’s all, ‘Ooh, aren’t you clever? You’re so, so clever!’
Sherlock: Is it about me?
LESTRADE : I think he needs winding.
Watson: You know, I think that really might be it.
Sherlock: No, don’t get it.
WELSBOROUGH HOUSE. The boys are walking along the drive towards the house.
LESTRADE: Charlie’s family are pretty cut up about it, as you’d expect, so go easy on them, yeah?
Sherlock: You know me.
MARY : Hey, hello!
LESTRADE : Yeah.
Watson: Got ’em, don’t worry. Pampers; the cream you can’t get from Boots.
MARY : Yeah, never mind about that. Where are you now? At the dead boy’s house?
Watson: Yeah.
MARY: And what does he think? Any theories?
Watson: Uh, well, I texted you the details.
MARY: Yeah, two different types of vinyl.
Watson: Hey!
Sherlock: How do you know about that?
MARY: Oh, you’d be amazed at what a receptionist picks up.  They know everything!
Sherlock: Solved it, then?
MARY : I’m working on it.
Sherlock: Oh, Mary, motherhood’s slowing you down.
MARY: Pig!
Sherlock: Keep trying.
MARY: So, what about it, then?
MARY: What, an empty car that suddenly has a week-old corpse in it? And what are you gonna call this one?
Watson: Ooh, the ... uh, The Ghost Driver.
Sherlock: Don’t give it a title.
Watson: People like the titles.
Sherlock: I hate the titles.
Watson: Give the people what they want.
Sherlock: No, never do that. People are stupid.
MARY: Uh, some people.
Sherlock: All people are stupid. ... Most people.
LESTRADE: Bizarre enough, though, isn’t it, to be him?  I mean, it’s right up your strasse.
Sherlock: Mr and Mrs Welsborough.  I really am most terribly sorry to hear about your daughter.
Watson: Son.
Sherlock: Son.
LESTRADE: Mr and Mrs Welsborough, this is Mr Sherlock Holmes.
DAVID: Thank you very much for coming. We’ve heard a great deal about you. If anyone can throw any light into this darkness, surely it will be you.
Sherlock: Well, I believe that I ...
Sherlock: ... can.
DAVID: But Charlie was our whole world, Mr Holmes. I ...
(His voice disappears entirely. Sherlock is now totally focussed on a small round table in front of the window. The window is shuttered and the light in the room is blue and wavy, as if deep water is rippling all around. At the back of the table is a framed large white card on a stand; the card is an invitation to David to attend a reception at 10 Downing Street, sent by Margaret Thatcher when she was Prime Minister. In front of it to the left is a framed official photograph of Thatcher and to the right is a framed photo of her and David. In front of the solo Thatcher photo is a small commemorative plate with a painting of her, and in front of the other picture is the small painted figurine that we saw earlier. Sherlock focuses in on the space between the plate and the figurine and sees that the leather cover of the table is scuffed. He homes in briefly on the official photo and then on the plate, then the perspective changes and it’s as if he is alone in the sitting room but now the shutters on the windows are open – as they were when he entered the room – and daylight is streaming in.
Standing beside him, John speaks distantly.)
Watson: Sherlock?
DAVID: Mr Holmes?
Sherlock: Sorry. You were saying?
DAVID: Well, Charlie was our whole world, Mr Holmes. I ... I don’t think we’ll ever get over this.
Sherlock: No, shouldn’t think so.
Sherlock: So sorry. Will you excuse me a moment? I just ...
Watson: I’ll just, um ...
Watson: Now what’s wrong?
Sherlock: Not sure. I just ... ‘By the pricking of my thumbs.’
Watson: Seriously? You?!
Sherlock: Intuitions are not to be ignored, John. They represent data processed too fast for the conscious mind to comprehend.
Sherlock: What is this?
DAVID: Oh, it’s a sort of shrine, I suppose, really.
DAVID: Bit of a fan of Mrs T. Big hero of mine when I was getting started.
Sherlock: Right, yes.
Sherlock: Who?
DAVID: What?
Sherlock: Who-who is this?
DAVID: Are you serious?
Watson: Sherlock.
DAVID: It’s ... it’s Margaret Thatcher, the first female prime minister of this country.
Sherlock: Right.
Sherlock: Prime minister?
DAVID : Mm. Leader of the government.
Sherlock: Right.
Sherlock: Female?
Watson: For God’s sake. You know perfectly well who she is.
Watson: Why are you playing for time?
Sherlock: It’s the gap.  Look at the gap. It’s wrong. Everything else is perfectly ordered, managed ...
Sherlock: This whole thing’s verging on OCD.
Sherlock: My respects. This figurine is routinely repositioned after the cleaner’s been in.  This picture’s straightened every day, yet this ugly gap remains.  Something’s missing from here, but only recently.
DAVID: Yes, a ...
Sherlock: ... plaster bust.
DAVID : ... plaster bust.
EMMA : Oh, for God’s sake. It got broken. What the hell has this got to do with Charlie?
Sherlock: Rug!
EMMA: What?
Sherlock: Well, how could it get broken? The only place for it to fall is the floor, and there is a big thick rug.
EMMA: Does it matter?
Watson: Mrs Welsborough, my apologies. It is worth letting him do this.
EMMA: Is your friend quite mad?
Watson: No, he’s an arsehole, but it’s an easy mistake.
DAVID: Look, no, we had a break-in. Some little bastard smashed it to bits. We found the remains out there in the porch.
Sherlock: The porch where we came in?
DAVID: How anybody could hate her so much, they’d go to the trouble of smashing her likeness ...
Sherlock: I’m no expert but, er, possibly her face?
Sherlock: Why didn’t he smash all the others? Perfect opportunity, and look at that one.  She’s smiling in that one.
EMMA: Oh, Inspector, this is clearly a waste of time. I mean, if there’s nothing more ..
Sherlock: I know what happened to your son.
EMMA: You do?
Sherlock: It’s quite simple. Superficial, to be blunt. But first, tell me: the night of the break-in. This room was in darkness?
DAVID: Well, yes.
Sherlock: And the porch where it was smashed: I noticed the motion sensor was damaged, so I assume it’s permanently lit.
LESTRADE: How’d you notice that?
Sherlock: I lack the arrogance to ignore details. I’m not the police.
Watson: So you’re saying he smashed it where he could see it.
Sherlock: Exactly.
Watson: Why?
Sherlock: Dunno. Wouldn’t be fun if I knew.
EMMA : Mr Holmes, please.
Sherlock: It was your fiftieth birthday, Mr Welsborough; of course you were disappointed that your son hadn’t made it back from his gap year. After all, he was in Tibet.
DAVID: Yes.
Sherlock: No.
DAVID: No?
Sherlock: The first part of your conversation was, in fact, pre-recorded video. Easily arranged.
DAVID : It’s a Skype call.
Sherlock: The trick was meant to be a surprise.
DAVID: Trick?
Sherlock: Obviously.
CHARLIE: Could you take a photo and send it?
Sherlock: There were two types of vinyl in the burnt-out remains of the car: one the actual passenger seat; the other a good copy. Well, good enough.
Sherlock: Effectively a costume.
(Having got the cover in place, Charlie tucks his hands inside and is now obscured from view from the outside.
In the present, David and Emma stare in disbelief.)
DAVID: You’re joking.
Sherlock: No, I’m not. What he wanted was for you to get close enough to the car so he could spring the surprise.
DAVID : Oh my God!
CHARLIE: Surprise!
Sherlock: That’s when it happened.
Sherlock: I can’t be certain, of course, but I think Charlie must have suffered some sort of a seizure. You said he’d felt unwell?
DAVID: You all right?
CHARLIE : It’s nothing. Probably just the altitude.
Sherlock: He died there and then. No-one had any cause to go near his car, so there he remained in the driver’s seat hidden until ...
Sherlock: When the two cars were examined, the fake seat had melted in the fire, revealing Charlie, who’d been sitting there quite dead for a week.
EMMA: Oh, God!
LESTRADE: Poor kid.
Sherlock: Really, I’m so sorry. Mr Welsborough, Mrs Welsborough.
Sherlock: This is where it was smashed.
LESTRADE: That was amazing.
Sherlock: What?
LESTRADE: The car, the kid.
Sherlock: Ancient history. Why are you still talking about it?
Watson: What’s so important about a broken bust of Margaret Thatcher?
Sherlock: Can’t stand it. Never can. There’s a loose thread in the world.
Watson: Yeah, doesn’t mean you have to pull on it.
Sherlock: What kind of a life would that be? Besides, I have the strangest feeling.
JIM: Miss me?
Sherlock: That’s mine. You two take a ... bus.
Watson: Why?
Sherlock: I need to concentrate, and I don’t want to hit you.
Sherlock: The Mall, please.
THE DIOGENES CLUB. MYCROFT’S UNDERGROUND OFFICE. Sherlock has taken off his coat and is pacing in front of the desk while Mycroft sits behind it.
MYCROFT: I met her once.
Sherlock: Thatcher?
MYCROFT: Rather arrogant, I thought.
Sherlock: You thought that?!
MYCROFT: I know!
MYCROFT: Why am I looking at this?
Sherlock: That’s her. John and Mary’s baby.
MYCROFT: Oh, I see.  Yes.  Looks very ...  ... fully functioning.
Sherlock: Is that really the best you can do?
MYCROFT: Sorry. I’ve never been very good with them.
Sherlock: Babies?
MYCROFT : Humans.
Sherlock: Moriarty. Did he have any connection with Thatcher? Any interest in her?
MYCROFT: Why on earth would he?
Sherlock: I don’t know. You tell me.
MYCROFT: In the last year of his life, James Moriarty was involved with four political assassinations, over seventy assorted robberies and terrorist attacks, including a chemical weapons factory in North Korea, and had latterly shown some interest in tracking down the Black Pearl of the Borgias – which is still missing, by the way, in case you feel like applying yourself to something practical.
Sherlock: It’s a pearl. Get another one.
Sherlock: There’s something important about this.
Sherlock: I’m sure. Maybe it’s Moriarty. Maybe it’s not. But something’s coming.
MYCROFT: Are you having a premonition, brother mine?
Sherlock: The world is woven from billions of lives, every strand crossing every other. What we call premonition is just movement of the web. If you could attenuate to every strand of quivering data, the future would be entirely calculable, as inevitable as mathematics.
MYCROFT: Appointment in Samarra.
Sherlock: I’m sorry?
MYCROFT: The merchant who can’t outrun Death. You always hated that story as a child. Less keen on predestination back then.
Sherlock: I’m not sure I like it now.
MYCROFT: You wrote your own version, as I remember. Appointment in Sumatra. The merchant goes to a different city and is perfectly fine.
Sherlock: Goodnight, Mycroft.
MYCROFT : Then he becomes a pirate, for some reason.
Sherlock: Keep me informed.
MYCROFT: Of what?
Sherlock: Absolutely no idea.
Somewhere unknown, white plaster smashes. The camera pans across the dark room where this has happened and reveals another plaster bust of Thatcher, broken into pieces.
Elsewhere, a man lies with his eyes closed, his eyelids trembling slightly as he dreams or remembers something. His eyes snap open, tears running from them, and a voice sounds inside his head, speaking with a foreign accent.
VOICE: Ammo!
VOICE: Ammo!
BAKER STREET. On the first floor landing, DI Hopkins is standing outside the closed door of the living room tapping a finger against a folder she is holding. She turns as Greg trots up the stairs holding a brown paper bag.
LESTRADE: Oh, hi, Stella.
HOPKINS: Greg.
LESTRADE: You, uh ... you, um ...
HOPKINS: Uh, yeah. He’s just got a client, so ...
LESTRADE: R-right, right, right.
LESTRADE: Uh, so see a lot of each other, do you?
HOPKINS : It’s nothing. I mean, it’s nothing serious.
LESTRADE: No, no.
HOPKINS: I just pop round every now and again for a chat.
LESTRADE: Yeah, ’course.
HOPKINS: I mean, he loves a really tricky case.
LESTRADE : Yeah, he does!  So, what you here for?
HOPKINS: Well, uh, Interpol think the Borgia Pearl trail leads back to London, so ...
LESTRADE: The Borgia Pearl. Are they ... they still after that, are they?
HOPKINS: Yeah. So how did, uh, you two first meet?
LESTRADE: Oh, it was a-a case about, um, ten years ago nobody could figure out. There was an old lady found dead in a sauna.
HOPKINS: Oh yeah? How’d she die?
LESTRADE: Hypothermia.
HOPKINS : What?
LESTRADE: I know! But then I met Sherlock.  It was so simple, the way ...
Sherlock: Will you two please keep it down?
LESTRADE: Sorry.
HOPKINS: Sorry.
Sherlock: Now, you haven’t always been in life insurance, have you? You started out in manual labour.
Sherlock: Oh, don’t bother being astonished. Your right hand’s almost an entire size bigger than your left.
Sherlock: Hard manual work does that.
KINGSLEY: I was a carpenter, uh, like me dad.
Sherlock: And you’re trying to give up smoking, unsuccessfully, and you once had a Japanese girlfriend that meant a lot to you but now you feel indifferent about.
KINGSLEY : How the hell ...?
KINGSLEY: Ah. E-cigarettes.
Sherlock: Not just that – ten individual e-cigarettes. Now, if you just wanted to smoke indoors, you would have invested in one of those irritating electronic pipe things, but you’re convinced you can give up, so you don’t want to buy a pipe because that means you’re not serious about quitting, so instead you buy individual cigarettes, always sure that each will be your last. Anything to add, John?
Sherlock: John?
Watson: Er, yeah, yeah, listening.
Sherlock: What is that?
Watson: That is ... me. Well, it’s a me-substitute.
Sherlock: Don’t be so hard on yourself.
Sherlock: You know I value your little contributions.
Watson: Yeah? It’s been there since nine this morning.
Sherlock: Has it? Where were you?
Watson: Helping Mrs H with her Sudoku.
KINGSLEY: What about my girlfriend?
Sherlock: What?
KINGSLEY: You said I had an ex.
Sherlock: You’ve got a Japanese tattoo in the crook of your elbow in the name ‘Akako.’
Sherlock: It’s obvious you’ve tried to have it removed.
KINGSLEY : But surely that means I wanna forget her, not that I’m indifferent.
Sherlock: If she’d really hurt your feelings, you would have had the word obliterated, but the first attempt wasn’t successful and you haven’t tried again, so it seems you can live with the slightly blurred memory of Akako, hence the indifference.
KINGSLEY: Sorry. I-I thought you’d done something clever.
KINGSLEY: No, no. Ah, but now you’ve explained it, it’s dead simple, innit?
Sherlock: I’ve withheld this information from you until now, Mr Kingsley, but I think it’s time you knew the truth.
KINGSLEY: What d’you mean?
Sherlock: Have you ever wondered if your wife was a little bit out of your league?
KINGSLEY: Well ...
Sherlock: You thought she was having an affair. I’m afraid it’s far worse than that. Your wife is a spy.
KINGSLEY: What?!
Sherlock: That’s right. Her real name is Greta Bengtsdotter.  Swedish by birth and probably the most dangerous spy in the world. She’s been operating deep undercover for the past four years now as your wife for one reason only: to get near the American embassy which is across the road from your flat. Tomorrow the US president will be at the embassy as part of an official state visit. As the president greets members of staff, Greta Bengtsdotter, disguised as a twenty-two stone cleaner, will inject the president in the back of the neck with a dangerous new drug hidden inside a secret compartment inside her padded armpit. This drug will then render the president entirely susceptible to the will of their new master, none other than James Moriarty.
KINGSLEY: What?!
Sherlock: Moriarty will then use the president as a pawn to destabilise the United Nations General Assembly which is due to vote on a nuclear non-proliferation treaty, tipping the balance in favour of a first strike policy against Russia. This chain of events will then prove unstoppable, thus precipitating ...  ... World War Three.
Watson: Are you serious?
Sherlock: No, of course not.  His wife left him because his breath stinks and he likes to wear her lingerie.
KINGSLEY: I don’t!
KINGSLEY: Just the bras.
Sherlock: Get out.
Watson: So. What’s this all about, then?
Sherlock: Having fun.
Watson: Fun?
Sherlock: While I can.
Watson: Mm-hm.
HOPKINS: Uh, Sherlock ...
Sherlock: Borgia Pearl, boring, go.
HOPKINS: Uh, but, uh ...
Sherlock: Go!
Sherlock: Oh, this had better be good.
LESTRADE: Oh, I think you’ll like it.
Watson: That is the bust, isn’t it? The one that was broken.
LESTRADE: No, it isn’t. It’s another one; different owner, different part of town. You were right! This is a ... this is a thing. Something’s going on.
LESTRADE: What’s wrong? I thought you’d be pleased.
Sherlock: I am pleased.
LESTRADE: You don’t look pleased.
Sherlock: This is my game face.
Sherlock: And the game is on.
(He turns away.
Shortly afterwards he is sitting at the kitchen table examining pieces of the broken plaster under his microscope. John and Greg stand nearby.)
LESTRADE: Another two have been smashed since the Welsborough one: one belonging to Mr Mohandes Hassan ...
Watson: Identical busts?
LESTRADE: Yeah; and this one to a Doctor Barnicot in Holborn. Three in total.  God knows who’d wanna do something like this.
Watson: Yeah, well some people have that complex, don’t they – an idée fixe.  They obsess over one thing and they can’t let it go.
Sherlock: No, no good. There were other images of Margaret ...  ... Margaret?
Watson: You know who she is.
Sherlock: ... Thatcher present at the first break-in. Why would a monomaniac fixate on just one?
Sherlock: Ooh.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: Blood.  Quite a bit of it, too.
Sherlock: Was there any injury at the crime scene?
LESTRADE: Nah.
Sherlock: Then our suspect must have cut themselves breaking the bust.
Sherlock: Come on.
LESTRADE: Holborn?
Sherlock: Lambeth.
LESTRADE: Lambeth? Why?
Sherlock: To see Toby.
Watson: Ah, right. Who?
Sherlock: You’ll see.
Watson: Right.  You coming?
Sherlock: No. He’s got a lunch date with a brunette forensic officer that he doesn’t want to be late for.
LESTRADE: Who told you?
Sherlock: The right sleeve of your jacket ...  ... plus the formaldehyde mixed with your cologne ...
Sherlock: ... and your complete inability to stop looking at your watch. Have a good time.
LESTRADE: I will.
Sherlock: Trust me, though, she’s not right for you.
LESTRADE : What?
Sherlock: She’s not the one.
LESTRADE: Well, thank you, Mystic Meg
Watson: How’d you work all that out?
Sherlock: She’s got three children in Rio that he doesn’t know about.
Watson: Are you just making this up?
Sherlock: Possibly.
Watson: Who’s Toby?
As Sherlock speaks, we see images of a young overweight man with glasses sitting at a desk on which are several computer screens. As he types, complicated data code streams across the screen in front of him.
Sherlock: There’s a kid I know, hacker, brilliant hacker, one of the world’s best. He got himself into serious trouble with the Americans a couple of years ago. He hacked into the Pentagon’s security system, and I managed to get him off the charge. Therefore he owes me a favour.
Watson: So, how does that help us?
Sherlock: What?
Watson: Toby the hacker.
Sherlock: Toby’s not the hacker.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: All right, Craig?
CRAIG : All right, Sherlock?
Sherlock: Craig’s got a dog!
Watson: So I see.
Sherlock: Good boy!
MARY: Hiya!
Watson: Mary, what are you ...?
Watson: No, we-we agreed we would never bring Rosie out on a case.
MARY: No, exactly, so ...  ... don’t wait up.  Hey, Sherlock.
Sherlock: Hey.
Watson: But ... Mary, what are you doing here?
Sherlock: She’s better at this than you.
Watson: Better?
Sherlock: So I texted her.
Watson: Hang on. Mary’s better than me?
Sherlock: Well, she is a retired super-agent with a terrifying skill set. Of course she’s better.
Watson: Yeah, okay.
Sherlock: Nothing personal.
Watson: What, so I’m supposed to just go home now, am I?
MARY: Oh, what do you think, Sherlock? Shall we take him with us?
Sherlock: John or the dog?
Watson: Ha-ha, that’s funny.
MARY : John.
Sherlock: Well ...
MARY: He’s handy and loyal.
Watson: That’s hilarious.
Sherlock: Mm.
Watson: Is it too early for a divorce?
MARY: Aww!
Sherlock: Barnicot’s house, then. Anyone up for a trudge?
Sherlock: Keep up. He’s fast.
Some time later, Toby has sat himself down on the pavement near a phone box. Mary stands behind him holding his lead and with her feet either side of his backside. John now has Rosie strapped in front of him in a baby carrier and Sherlock stands next to him with his hands stuffed into the top pockets of his coat. From Mary’s pursed lips, John’s frown as he looks down at the dog and Sherlock’s distant gaze, it seems that they’ve been there for some time. John finally looks up at Sherlock.
Watson: He’s not moving.
Sherlock: He’s thinking.
Watson: He’s really not moving.
Sherlock: Slow but sure, John; not dissimilar to yourself.
Watson: You just like this dog, don’t you?
Sherlock: Well, I like you.
MARY : He’s still not moving.
Sherlock: Fascinating.
But finally the game is afoot a-paw, and – to the familiar “Pursuit” music – we get a Toby’s-eye view while he lollops along the road, identifying scents in his own Sherlockian way as he visualises the different smells as ‘HAEMOGLOBIN,’ and ‘CAFFEINE,’ and various chemical symbols. Overlaying the screen, a map shows the route he’s taking as he chases along many different roads. Some time later the team is walking along another road as Toby leads them, his nose down and identifying ‘H: GROUP A -VE.’ On they go, Toby now smelling the chemical elements of ‘WHISKEY’ as they run past a church.
Sherlock: Well? What do you make of it?
MARY: They were looking for something.
Sherlock: Yes, but it wasn’t a burglar. They came specifically for that Thatcher bust. Why?
Sherlock: Clever.
MARY: Well, if you were wounded and you knew you were leaving a trail, where would you go?
Watson: Like hiding a tree in a forest.
Sherlock: Or blood in a butchers’.
Sherlock: Never mind, Toby. Better luck next time, hm?
Sherlock: This is it, though. This is the one.  I can feel it.
Watson: Not Moriarty?
Sherlock: It has to be him. It’s too bizarre; it’s too baroque.  It’s designed to beguile me, tease me, lure me in. At last – a noose for me to put my neck into.
Elsewhere, someone smashes a hammer into another white plaster bust of Thatcher and then brings the hammer down again to break the bits into smaller pieces before rummaging through the fragments. A second identical bust stands beside the shattered one, and the intruder lifts it and then slams it down onto the table to break it.
MARY AND JOHN’S BEDROOM. The Watsons are lying side by side in bed with their eyes closed. Initially they are reflected in a mirror on the wall and it’s only when the view switches to the ‘real’ image that we perhaps notice that they are lying on opposite sides to the sides they occupied when we’ve seen them in bed before. They speak quietly and tiredly.
MARY: You should have seen the state of the front room. It was like ‘The Exorcist.’
Watson: Hm! Was Rosie’s head spinning round?
MARY: No. Just the projectile vomiting.
Watson: Nice
MARY: Hm! No, you’d think we’d have noticed when she was born.
Watson: Hm? Noticed what?
MARY: The little ‘666’ on her forehead.
Watson: That’s ‘The Omen.’
MARY: So?
Watson: Well, you said it was like ‘The Exorcist.’ They’re two different things. She can’t be the Devil and the Antichrist.
MARY: Yeah, can’t she?
MARY: Coming, darling.
MARY: Mummy’s coming.
MARY : Oh, what are you doing?! What are you doing?! Come here!
CRAIG’S HOUSE. Craig is sitting at his computer typing while Sherlock stands behind him.
CRAIG: Have you heard of that thing, in Germany?
Sherlock: You’re going to have to be more specific, Craig.
CRAIG: ‘Ostalgie.’ People who miss the old days under the Communists. People are weird, aren’t they?
Sherlock: Mm.
CRAIG: According to this, there’s quite a market for Cold War memorabilia – Thatcher, Reagan, Stalin.  Time’s a great leveller, innit? Thatcher’s like – I dunno – Napoleon now.
Sherlock: Yes, fascinating, irrelevant. Where exactly did they come from?
CRAIG: I’ve got into the records of the suppliers – Gelder & Co. Seems they’re from Georgia.
Sherlock: Where exactly?
CRAIG: Uh, Tbilisi. Batch of six.
CRAIG: One to Welsborough; one to Hassan; one to Doctor Barnicot. Two to Miss Orrie Harker ...
CRAIG: ... one to a Mr Jack Sandeford of Reading.
Sherlock: Lestrade, another one?
LESTRADE : Yeah.
Sherlock: Harker or Sandeford?
LESTRADE: Harker. And it’s murder this time.
Sherlock: Hm, that perks things up a bit.
(He turns to leave. Not long afterwards he is in the back of a taxi. He types “BLACK PEARL MYSTERY” into his phone and gets various snippets of information:
Legendary gem stolen from ...
Interpol launches investigation following the legendary Black Pearl ...
... Borgias from a secure vault in Georgia.
INVESTIGATION ...
He types “INTERPOL” and more information comes up:
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?
Black Pearl
Sources at Interpol have admitted they have no new suspects in the case of the missing Black Pearl of the ...
... IN GEORGIA
INTERPOL INVESTIGATION
NO NEW SUSPECT IN THE BLACK PEARL CASE
ORRIE HARKER’S BACK GARDEN. Greg and Sherlock walk across the garden to where Miss Harker’s body is lying face down on the grass. The forensic investigators are taking photographs.
LESTRADE: Defensive wounds on her face and hands. Throat cut – sharp blade.
Sherlock: The same thing inside the house? The bust?
LESTRADE: Two of them this time.
Sherlock: Interesting. That batch of statues was made in Tbilisi several years ago – limited edition of six.
LESTRADE: And now someone’s wandering about destroying ’em all. Makes no sense. What’s the point?
Sherlock: No, they’re not destroying them. That’s not what’s happening.
LESTRADE: Yes it is.
Sherlock: Well, it is what’s happening, but it’s not the point. I’ve been slow; far too slow.
LESTRADE: Well, I’m still being slow over here, so if you wouldn’t mind ...
Sherlock: Slow but lucky; very lucky. And since they smashed both busts, our luck might just hold. Jack Sandeford of Reading is where I’m going next. Congratulations, by the way.
LESTRADE: I’m sorry?
Sherlock: Well, you’re about to solve a big one.
LESTRADE: Yeah, until John publishes his blog.
Sherlock: Yeah. ’Til then, basically.
SANDEFORD HOME. EARLY EVENING. Inside one of the rooms in an expensive looking house, a small table holds a photo of a man holding up a trophy and smiling happily at the camera. In front of the photograph is a different trophy with a carving of a man with a golf club over his shoulder in full back swing and an over-large bag of golf clubs beside him. Next to the trophy is a white plaster bust of Thatcher.
A man wearing a dressing gown and with a towel over one arm walks past the table and goes to the other side of the room which has a floor-to-ceiling window looking through into an indoor swimming pool lit in dark blue light. A little girl is in the pool, swimming. The man goes through the open door into the pool room and calls out to the girl.
SANDEFORD: That’s enough now, love.
SANDEFORD: Daddy has things to do, I’m afraid.
SANDEFORD: And you need to get to bed! Come on!
(She gets out of the water and he wraps the towel around her. They walk out of the pool room and Sandeford closes the door, swiping his hand over another sensor on the wall. The lights in that room go out, leaving the lights on in the pool room. They walk away and, in the pool room, Sherlock walks into view and stands at the window watching them leave. After a moment, he walks out of view again.
A clock on the screen shows the time as 19:00. Time passes – your transcriber can’t be bothered to record each time change – and then, some time after 22:00 someone comes into the room adjoining the pool room, carrying a large bag. The person walks across to the Thatcher bust, picks it up and starts to stuff it into the bag but then the lights come on.
Sherlock – who has taken off his coat – walks across the room behind the intruder, who has the hood of his jacket pulled up over his head and is wearing a balaclava helmet over his face.)
Sherlock: Wouldn’t it be much simpler to take out your grievances at the polling station?
(The intruder whips out a pistol and spins around towards Sherlock, who instantly slaps the gun out of his hand. The man swings the bag up and towards Sherlock’s head but he grabs it and throws it out of reach before punching the man in the face. Your transcriber notices for the first time that Sherlock is wearing the Purple Shirt of Sex™ and frets for its safety.
The man returns the punch and they fight on for some time, trading blows and kicks. The man hurls a bar stool at Sherlock but he shimmies out of the way and then surges in and grapples with the man, who headbutts him and then grabs the back of his head and slams his forehead down onto a breadboard on the bar. Sherlock springs back up and punches the man again, then grabs his balaclava and pulls it off. The man stumbles back and we recognise that this is the man who was having nightmares in his small bedroom earlier in the episode.)
Sherlock: You were on the run; nowhere to hide your precious cargo.
Sherlock: You find yourself in a workshop. Plaster busts of The Iron Lady drying. It’s clever, very clever. But now you’ve met me, and you’re not so clever, are you?
THE INTRUDER: Who are you?
Sherlock: My name is Sherlock Holmes.
THE INTRUDER: Goodbye, Sherlock Holmes.
(Roaring in rage, he throws himself at Sherlock and their impetus sends them crashing through the glass window and straight into the pool. They struggle, fighting underwater for a while. The intruder screams out in fury and they surface, the man with his hands around Sherlock’s throat before they plunge underwater again. Your transcriber wishes she had the time, enthusiasm and energy to transcribe the fight split second by split second but hopes you’ll forgive her not going into that much detail. They continue to struggle and eventually the man drags Sherlock across to the jacuzzi, hauls him half over the top and shoves his head down into the water, holding him down. One of their hands flails across a nearby sensor and water begins to bubble through the pool. Sherlock finally manages to get his head up and out of the water and he flails towards the sensor, eventually slamming his hand down onto it. The towers either side of the jacuzzi begin to pour out sheets of water. Sherlock jerks backwards, pushing the man away, and turns to face him, backhanding him and then moving around him to wrap one arm around his neck. As the man repeatedly cries out while he struggles to get free, Sherlock puts his other hand over the man’s head and pulls it back while bundling him towards one of the fountains and then shoving his face under the flow. The man gags and chokes as the water pours into his mouth.
After a while Sherlock shoves him aside and makes for the side of the pool. The man cries out in rage and chases after him, climbing out and following him, but Sherlock scrambles into the adjoining kitchen and grabs the plaster bust from the bag on the floor. As the man runs towards him, Sherlock swings the bust round and slams it across his face, sending him crashing to the floor. He lands close to his own pistol lying nearby but for the moment he doesn’t notice it.)
Sherlock: You’re out of time. Tell me about your boss, Moriarty.
THE INTRUDER : Who?
Sherlock: I know it’s him. It must be him.
THE INTRUDER: You think you understand. You understand nothing.
Sherlock: Well, before the police come in and spoil things, why don’t we just enjoy the moment?
Sherlock: Let me present Interpol’s number one case. Too tough for them; too boring for me.
Sherlock: The Black Pearl of the Borgias.
(Looking smug, he lowers his gaze to the shattered plaster. But there’s no pearl lying in the fragments. Instead, Sherlock’s eyes fill with shock and disbelief as he looks down at a large silver memory stick. Written on the side of it in dark ink are the letters
A.G.R.A
Sherlock: It’s not possible. How could she ...?
(He reaches out to pick it up.
In flashback, we see John rolling the memory stick in his fingers in front of the fireplace at the Holmes’ cottage.
In flashback, Mary puts the stick onto the table beside John’s chair in 221B’s living room.
MARY: Everything about who I was is on there.
Watson: The problems of your past are your business. The problems of your future are my privilege.
He turns and drops the memory stick onto the burning fire.
In the present, while Sherlock continues to stare in confusion, the intruder has finally seen his pistol nearby and now reaches for it and picks it up.)
Sherlock: I don’t understand.
Sherlock: She ... she destroyed it.
THE INTRUDER: “She.”
THE INTRUDER: You know her.
THE INTRUDER: You do, don’t you? You know the bitch. She betrayed me; betrayed us all.
Sherlock: Mary. This is about Mary.
THE INTRUDER: Is that what she’s calling herself now, eh?
LESTRADE : Armed police! You’re surrounded!
THE INTRUDER: Give it to me.
THE INTRUDER : Give it to me!
LESTRADE : Come out slowly. I wanna see your hands above your head.
THE INTRUDER: Nobody shoots me! Anyone shoots, I kill this man!
LESTRADE : Lay down your weapon. Do it now!
THE INTRUDER : I’m leaving this place. If no-one follows me, no-one dies.
LESTRADE : Lay down your weapon!
THE INTRUDER: You’re policemen. I’m a professional.
THE INTRUDER: Tell her she’s a dead woman. She’s a dead woman walking.
Sherlock: She’s my friend, and she’s under my protection. Who are you?
THE INTRUDER : I’m the man ... who’s gonna kill your friend. Who’s Sherlock Holmes?
Sherlock: Not a policeman.
TBILISI, GEORGIA. SIX YEARS AGO . The camera pans down over a huge room with an enormously high ceiling. Ornate lights hang from the ceiling. Two large pedestals either side of the middle of the room have large bronze lions on them. The room is a mess with items scattered about haphazardly. There are several people sitting at the foot of each of the pedestals, wrapped in blankets. Other people are sitting on the floor underneath the massive windows. One of the windows has a Georgian flag on a flagpole propped up against the window frame. A few armed men in military uniform are prowling around the room watching the others.
In between the pedestals is a large table and a man and woman sit in chairs at one end. They too have blankets wrapped around them. A chess set is on the table. The woman looks up at an approaching soldier.
AMBASSADOR: What do you think? Mate in two?
SOLDIER : I will shoot you.
HUSBAND: Don’t antagonise them, darling.
AMBASSADOR: Oh, what else is there to do? Chess palls after three months.
AMBASSADOR: Everything palls.
HUSBAND: They’ll send someone soon.
AMBASSADOR: “They”? Who are “they”? Seems to me we’ve put an awful lot of faith in “they.” Well, I’ve got something “they” would dearly love if only we could get out of here.
AMBASSADOR: I’ve got Ammo.
HUSBAND: Ammo?
(At that moment glass shatters above them. The Georgian soldiers shout out and everyone dives for cover as two black-clad operatives with balaclavas over their faces rappel down into the room on ropes, firing as they go. At the same time two more operatives kick their way through a door which had been held closed with an axe through the handles and begin to pick off the soldiers with accurate single shots from their rifles. With all the soldiers apparently terminated, the operatives move through the room checking in all directions.
The screen splits into four, each section containing one of the operatives. Above each of their heads appears a letter. Left to right, the letters read:
G.A.R.A.
The two operatives on the left change places, their letters following them. Now the order of letters reads:
A.G.R.A.
The ambassador kneels up from where she had taken cover under the table. The operative labelled ‘R.’ holds out a hand towards her and speaks in a very recognisable female voice.)
MARY: Madam Ambassador.
AMBASSADOR: What took you so long?
MARY: Can’t get the staff.
OPERATIVE: Everyone out! Now!
THAT MAN: What now? What do we do?
MARY: We die.
The light of the explosion fades away and we’re in the living room in Baker Street. Sherlock is standing in front of his chair holding the memory stick by one end and repeatedly tapping it against the fingers of his other hand while he frowns in concentration. He has a dark bruise under his left eye. The door opens and Greg comes in. Sherlock turns to look at him.
Sherlock: Well?
LESTRADE: He can’t have got far. We’ll have him in a bit.
Sherlock: I very much doubt it.
LESTRADE: Why?
Sherlock: Because I think he used to work with Mary.
In his crummy little room, the intruder is sitting on the floor holding an open bottle in one hand, and to the right of him on the floor is an open laptop. He has googled “Sherlock Holmes” and is looking at the various images that have come up. He clicks on some of them and then finds one of John, Mary and Sherlock outside the church on the Watsons’ wedding day. He zooms in on Sherlock, then pans across to Mary’s smiling face. Putting down the bottle, he picks up the laptop and puts it into his lap, staring at the photo and breathing heavily. He closes his eyes, grimaces, and now he’s in flashback.
Wearing his black camo gear but without the balaclava, he runs across the floor of a pottery workshop and braces himself momentarily against one of the racks in the middle of the floor. Soldiers shout in Russian somewhere nearby, one of them yelling, “I tell you, bitch, I will shoot!” A man, maybe a potter, maybe a guard, is sitting at a side bench and the operative runs across towards him. The man gets up and the operative fights with him. A gunshot explodes some nearby pottery on one of the central racks, and the operative takes down his opponent as a soldier comes in and starts firing. By now the operative has a pistol but he has no chance to use it because there are now at least two soldiers firing at him and pottery and coloured glaze powder are exploding into the air all around him. Using the cover of the flying dust, the operative turns and runs to the far end of the workshop and sees six identical white plaster busts of Margaret Thatcher on the table. Pulling his memory stick’s chain over his head, he stuffs the chain and stick into the open base of one of the busts. As the soldiers make their way cautiously forward, he stands the bust up . He turns to run but the gold-toothed man is behind him and smashes him to the floor.
Some time later the operative is tied to a chair. The gold-toothed soldier shoves his head up to reveal his bleeding mouth and then punches him hard in the stomach twice. As the operative slumps and wheezes, the man walks around behind him.
GOLD TEETH MAN: Ammo. Ammo. Ammo.
GOLD TEETH MAN: Ammo. Ammo. Ammo-o-o-o-o.
GUARD : He passed out again.  It’s no fun when they pass out. We’ll come back later.
GOLD TEETH MAN : What would he do if he knew, huh? About the English woman?
GUARD: What would you do to a traitor? Maybe we’ll tell him one day. If he lives that long.
[Transcriber’s note: one of my beta team flailed over the fact that the unseen person being flogged was tall and thin and had long floppy hair. When she pointed it out to me I joined in with the flailing, remembering someone else of that description who got himself beaten in a foreign country. Additionally, during later footage of the same embassy firefight we see glimpses of both of the other team members, and each of them has short hair.
All right, so the above event happened six years ago but still ... *wibbles*]
NIGHT TIME. Rain is pouring down and there’s lightning and thunder. Somebody wearing a raincoat with the hood pulled up over their head walks along a path towards a church, lighting the way with a flashlight. The person makes their way to a small wooden door with NO ENTRY stencilled on it in red. Graffiti just under the message reads “GwJ.” Near the bottom of the door, someone has spray-painted a white circle with an “i” inside it. The person pushes open the door and goes inside, closing the door again. Walking into a small vault, they find that it has been set up as a home-from-home: there’s a tatty sofa and a couple of hard plastic chairs, and a couple of desks, one of which has an open laptop and anglepoise lamp on it. A few other lights are dotted around the room but it’s still quite dark in there. The person pushes back the hood of their coat and we realise that it’s Mary.
Sherlock: I am an idiot. I know nothing.
MARY : Well, I’ve been telling you that for ages! That was quite a text you sent me.  What’s going on, Sherlock?
Sherlock: I was so convinced it was Moriarty, I couldn’t see what was right under my nose.
Sherlock: I expected a pearl.
MARY: Oh my God. That’s a ...
Sherlock: Yes, it’s an AGRA memory stick like you gave John, except this one belongs to someone else. Who?
MARY : I don’t know. We-we all had one, but the others w...  Well, haven’t you even looked at it yet?
Sherlock: I glanced at it, but I’d prefer to hear it from you.
MARY: Why?
Sherlock: Because I’ll know the truth when I hear it.
MARY : Oh, Sherlock.
MARY: There were four of us. Agents.
Sherlock: Not just agents.
MARY: Polite term. Alex; Gabriel; me; and Ajay.
MARY: There was absolute trust between us. The memory sticks guaranteed it. We all had one, each containing aliases, our background, everything. We could never be betrayed because we had everything we needed to destroy the other.
Sherlock: Who employed you?
MARY: Anyone who paid well. I mean, we were at the top of our game for years, and then it all ended. There was a coup in Georgia. The British embassy in Tbilisi was taken over; lots of hostages. We got the call to go in, get them out. There was a change of plan, a last-minute adjustment.
Sherlock: Who from?
MARY: I don’t know. Just another voice on the phone, and a code word, “Ammo.”
Sherlock: “Ammo”?
MARY: Like ‘ammunition.’ We went in, but then something went wrong. Something went really wrong.
MARY : That was six years ago. Feels like forever. I was the only one that made it out.
Sherlock: No.
MARY: What?
Sherlock: I met someone tonight: the same someone who’s looking for the sixth Thatcher.
MARY: Oh my God. That’s Ajay. That’s him. What, he’s alive?
Sherlock: Yeah, very much so.
MARY : I don’t believe it! This is amazing! I thought I was the only one. I thought I was the only one who got out.
MARY: Where is he? I need to see him now!
Sherlock: Before you gave it to John, did you keep your memory stick safe?
MARY: Yeah, of course. It was our insurance. Above all, they mustn’t fall into enemy hands.
Sherlock: So Ajay survived as well, and now he’s looking for the memory stick he managed to hide with all of AGRA’s old aliases on it. But why?
MARY: I don’t know!
Sherlock: Tbilisi was six years ago. Where’s he been?
Sherlock: Mary, I’m sorry to tell you this, but he wants you dead.
MARY : Sorry, no, no, ’cause we-we were family.
Sherlock: Families fall out. The memory stick is the easiest way to track you down. You’re the only other survivor. It must be you that he wants, and he’s already killed looking for the Thatcher bust.
MARY : Well, he’s just trying to find me. He survived. That’s all that matters!
Sherlock: I heard it from his own mouth. “Tell her she’s a dead woman walking.”
MARY: Why would he want to kill me?
Sherlock: He said you betrayed him.
MARY: Oh, no, no, that’s insane.
Sherlock: Well, it’s what he believes.
MARY: I suppose I was always afraid this might happen; that something in my past would come back to haunt me one day.
Sherlock: Yes, well he’s a very tangible ghost.
MARY: God, I just wanted a bit of peace, and I really thought I had it.
Sherlock: No. Mary, you do. I made a vow, remember?
Sherlock: To look after the three of you.
MARY: Sherlock the dragon slayer.
Sherlock: Stay close to me and I will keep you safe from him. I promise you.
MARY: There’s something I think you should read.
Sherlock: What is it?
MARY: I hoped I wouldn’t have to do this.
Sherlock: What are you ...?
He gasps and starts to wobble.)
Sherlock: Mary.
MARY : There you go.
Sherlock: Oh, no.
MARY: It’s all right. It’s for the best, believe me.
Sherlock: No.
MARY: You just look after them ’til I get back. I’m sorry.
MARY : I’m so sorry.
(She turns and looks back at him briefly before disappearing from view. Sherlock’s vision whites out.
Inside his head, the distant sound of a young child singing can be heard. A child  – only fuzzily visible and with his back to us – is wearing red trousers rolled up to the knees, a yellow jumper or jacket, a dark blue pirate’s hat on his head and yellow plimsolls or shoes, and he’s carrying a yellow plastic sword as he skips away through the shallows on a beach. Nearby a wet Irish setter, with a purple bandana tied around his neck, watches the boy. Then someone wearing a pair of red wellington boots can be seen running along the pebble beach. The perspective changes and, while the child’s voice continues to sing, we see the pirate boy trotting away from us alongside a stream followed by the other boy who is wearing red wellingtons, blue jeans and a checked shirt. The memory whites out.
[Transcriber’s note: a later episode confirms the lyrics of the song, which are:
I that am lost / Oh, who will find me / Deep down below /The old beech tree?]
Sherlock regains consciousness in the vault. Grimacing and groaning, he looks across to the laptop and sees that the memory stick has gone. Wide-eyed, he turns the laptop for a clearer view, then grimaces again, gasps and hauls himself to his feet. He stumbles outside and looks around. The rain has stopped, although a flash of lightning briefly lights the sky. Shaking his head to try and clear it, he groans and hurries away.)
MYCROFT’S DIOGENES OFFICE. Mycroft, sitting with his feet up on the desk, frowns.
MYCROFT: Agra? A city on the banks of the river Yamuna in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, India. It is three hundred and seventy-eight kilometres west of the state capital, Lucknow ...
Sherlock: What are you, Wikipedia?
MYCROFT : Yes.
Sherlock: AGRA is an acronym.
MYCROFT: Oh, good. I love an acronym. All the best secret societies have them.
Sherlock: Team of agents, the best. But you know all that.
MYCROFT: Of course I do. Go on.
Sherlock: One of them, Ajay, is looking for Mary, also one of the team.
MYCROFT: Indeed? Well, that’s news to me.
Sherlock: Is it?
Sherlock: He’s already killed looking for that memory stick. AGRA always worked for the highest bidder. I thought that might include you.
MYCROFT : Me?
Sherlock: Well, I mean the British government or whatever government you’re currently propping up.
MYCROFT: AGRA were very reliable; then came the Tbilisi incident. They were sent in to free the hostages but it all went horribly wrong. And that was that. We stopped using freelancers.
Sherlock: Your initiative?
MYCROFT: My initiative. Freelancers are too woolly; too messy. I don’t like loose ends – not on my watch.
Sherlock: There was something else; a detail, a code word.
MYCROFT: “AMMO”?
Sherlock: It’s all I’ve got.
MYCROFT: Little enough.
Sherlock: Could you do some digging, as a favour?
MYCROFT : You don’t have many favours left.
Sherlock: Then I’m calling them all in.
MYCROFT: And if you can find who’s after her and neutralise them, what then? You think you can go on saving her forever?
Sherlock: Of course.
MYCROFT: Is that sentiment talking?
Sherlock: No. It’s me.
MYCROFT: Difficult to tell the difference these days.
Sherlock: Told you: I made a promise, a vow.
MYCROFT : All right. I’ll see what I can do.  But remember this, brother mine: agents like Mary tend not to reach retirement age. They get retired in a pretty permanent sort of way.
Sherlock: Not on my watch.
MARY : My darling.
MARY : I need to tell you this because you mustn’t hate me for going away.
MARY: Pardon me. I can hear a squeaking. Can you hear a squeaking?
PASSENGER : No.
MARY: Only I watched a documentary on the Discovery Channel.
MARY: “Why Planes Fail.” Did you see it?
PASSENGER: Can’t say I did.
MARY: Oh, truly terrifying. Swore I would never fly again, yet here I am!
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: Everything okay, madam?
MARY: No! No, no, it’s not, but then what’s the use in complaining? I hear a squeaking. Probably the wing’ll come off, is all.
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: Everything’s fine, I promise you. Just relax.
MARY : Oh, okay, relax.  She said relax.
PASSENGER : Did you have a nice time? In London?
MARY: It was okay, I guess, but did somebody hide the sun?  Did you lose it in the war?
(Laughing, she slaps his arm again. He smiles politely and returns to his book. Mary, chomping on her gum, turns and looks along the aisle behind her.
Back at John’s, he continues to read her letter. An overlay of her writing drifts across the screen.)
MARY : I gave myself permission to have an ordinary life. I’m not running. I promise you that. I just need to do this in my own way.
MARY : Oh God. I’m s... I-I don’t feel so good. Oh my God.
FLIGHT ATTENDANT : Everything okay, madam?
MARY: I think I’m dying. I don’t feel so good.
FLIGHT ATTENDANT : You’re all right.
MARY: Oh ...  ... you’re sweet.  You have a very kind face. God will smile on you. (She grizzles, then raises her other hand towards her mouth.
At home, John looks away from the letter thoughtfully as Mary’s voiceover continues.)
MARY : ... but I don’t want you and Sherlock hanging off my gun arm. I’m sorry, my love.
MARY : I know you’ll try to find me, but there is no point.
MARY : Every move is random and not even Sherlock Holmes can anticipate the roll of a dice.
. A map of Norway appears on screen and starts to zoom in.
Mary, dressed for cold weather and wearing a woolly hat, is on a fishing boat at a quayside. The boat has a Norwegian flag on the side of the wheelhouse. She picks up a large canvas bag, swings it over her shoulder and steps out of the boat and walks away.)
MARY : I need to move the target far, far away from you and Rosie, and then I’ll come back, my darling. I swear I will.
(Later she has made her way to a more isolated area of shoreline. A coastal watchtower stands nearby and she goes to the stone wall below it. Looking around to check that there’s nobody in the vicinity, she pulls out a loose stone from the wall and reaches into the gap to pull out a brown envelope. Taking out the passport inside it, she opens it. The photo is of Mary but with long brown hair, and the name is Gabrielle Ashdown, born in the USA on 16 April 1975.
Some time later, as an overlaid map drifts across eastern Europe, Mary comes out of a stone cottage dressed in black leathers and wearing a long dark wig that matches the passport photo. She gets onto a motorcycle, pushes the starter button, puts on a black helmet and drives off, riding past what looks like an abandoned factory or warehouse with “RACHWALD KIELBASKI” painted on the side. Graffitied across the wall is the word “SOLIDARNOŚĆ” .
Later again, while the overlaid map confusingly pans across Liechtenstein , an SUV drives across a far more arid region, possibly northern Italy. Mary is at the wheel.
The dice roll again and the arrival time of an aeroplane can be seen as 02:30 while the map pans across south eastern Europe. We next see Mary walking along a stone pier which has the Cyrillic word БУГРИНО  painted on the wall. Her hair is covered with a black floppy beret.
The dice roll again and a camel walks across a desert region while the map pans across Tehran. It’s not clear whether the person riding the camel is actually Mary, though we can assume that it is. Again the dice roll and someone who we again assume is Mary is now on foot, wearing a white head scarf and with a bag over her shoulder, walking across the sand towards a nearby building. The map is now panning across Algeria.
Later, as the map shows Morocco, Mary walks into a covered souk or marketplace wearing dark slacks, a striped shirt and a long white scarf over her dark hair. She has a bag over one shoulder. She moves briskly through the stalls, checking behind herself for any sign of being followed. Making her way into a narrow alleyway she reaches a doorway above which is a sign saying in Arabic and English, “Hotel CECIL.” She goes inside.
She reaches a latticed door and puts her head close to it as if listening for sounds inside. Drawing and cocking a large pistol, she pushes the door open and moves toward the sound of an accented male voice. The room ahead of her is in an Oriental style with orange terracotta walls, stained glass windows covered in latticework, and pointed archways. There is a bed in front of her to her right, and the voice is coming from deeper in the room to the left.)
MALE VOICE : Not like this, my friend. You haven’t got a chance, not a chance.
MALE VOICE : I’ve got you where I want you. Give in! Give in! I will destroy you. You’re completely at my mercy.
SHERLOCK’s VOICE : Mr Baker. Well, that completes the set.
MALE VOICE : No it does not.
SHERLOCK’s VOICE : Well, who else am I missing?
KARIM: Master Bun. It’s not a set without him. How many more times, Mr Sherlock?
Sherlock: Maybe it’s because I’m not familiar with the concept.  Oh, hi, Mary.
KARIM : What concept?
Sherlock: Happy families.
Sherlock: Nice trip?
MARY: How the f...
Sherlock: Please, Mary. There is a child present.
MARY: How did you get in here?!
Sherlock: Karim let me in.
KARIM: Hello.
Sherlock: Karim, would you be so kind as to fetch us some tea?
KARIM: Sure.
Sherlock: Thank you.
KARIM: Nice to meet you, missus.
MARY : No, I-I-I mean how did you find me?
Sherlock: I’m Sherlock Holmes.
MARY: No, really, though, how? Every movement I made was entirely random; every new personality just on the roll of a dice!
Sherlock: Mary, no human action is ever truly random.  An advanced grasp of the mathematics of probability mapped onto a thorough apprehension of human psychology and the known dispositions of any given individual can reduce the number of variables considerably.
Sherlock: I myself know of at least fifty-eight techniques to refine this seemingly infinite array of randomly generated possibilities down to the smallest number of feasible variables.
Sherlock: But they’re really difficult, so instead I just ... stuck a tracer on the inside of the memory stick.
MARY: Oh, you bastard!
MARY: You bastard!
Sherlock: I know, but your face!
MARY: “The mathematics of probability”?!
Sherlock: You believed that.
MARY : “Feasible variables”!
Sherlock: Yes. I started to run out about then.
MARY: In the memory stick!
Watson: Yeah, that was my idea.
Night falls outside, and the call to prayer can be heard. In the hotel, Mary has taken off her dark wig to reveal her blonde hair tied back. John is sitting on the corner of the low table while she stands in front of him.
Watson: AGRA.
MARY: Yes.
Watson: Mm-hm. You said it was your initials.
MARY: In a way, that was true.
Watson: In a way?
Watson: So many lies.
MARY: I’m so sorry.
Watson: I don’t just mean you.
MARY: What?
Watson: Alex, Gabriel, Ajay ... You’re ‘R.’
Watson: Rosamund.
MARY : Rosamund Mary.
MARY: I always liked ‘Mary.’
Watson: Yeah, me too.
Watson: I used to.
MARY: I ju... I didn’t know what else to do.
Watson: You could have stayed. You could have talked to me.  That’s what couples are supposed to do: work things through.
MARY: Yes.  Yes, of course.
Watson: Mary, I may not be a very good man, but I think I’m a bit better than you give me credit for, most of the time.
MARY: All the time. You’re always a good man, John. I’ve never doubted that. You never judge; you never complain. I don’t deserve you. I ...
MARY: All I ever wanted to do was keep you and Rosie safe, that’s all.
Sherlock: I will keep you safe.
Sherlock: But it has to be in London. It’s my city; I know the turf.
Sherlock: Come home and everything will be all right, I promise you.
Sherlock: Get down!
AJAY: Hello again.
MARY: Ajay?
AJAY: Oh, you remember me. I’m touched.
MARY: Look, I thought you were dead, believe me, I did.
AJAY: I’ve been looking forward to this for longer than you can imagine.
MARY: I swear to you, I thought you were dead. I thought I was the only one who got out.
Sherlock: How did you find us?
AJAY: By following you, Sherlock Holmes. I mean, you’re clever – you found her – but I found you, so perhaps not so clever. And now here we are, at last.
AJAY: Touché.
Watson: Listen: whatever you think you know, we can talk about this. We can work it out.
AJAY: She thought I was dead. I might as well have been.
MARY: It was always just the four of us, always, remember?
AJAY: Oh yeah.
MARY: So why d’you want to kill me?
AJAY: D’you know how long they kept me prisoner; what they did to me? They tortured Alex to death.  I can still hear the sound of his back breaking.
AJAY: But you, you – where were you?
MARY: That day at the embassy, I escaped.
AJAY : Oh, yeah.
MARY: But I lost sight of you too, so you explain: where were you?
AJAY: Oh, I got out ... for a while.
AJAY: Long enough to hide my memory stick.
AJAY: I didn’t want that to fall into their hands.
AJAY: I was loyal, you see; loyal to my friends. But they took me, tortured me. Not for information.
AJAY: Not for anything except fun.
(In flashback, the gold-toothed man grins manically into Ajay’s face while he groans.
In the present John, now on his hands and knees behind the table, drops his head down and then sinks down to press his head against the backs of his hands.)
AJAY: Oh, they thought I’d give in, die, but I didn’t. I lived, and eventually they forgot about me just rotting in a cell somewhere. Six years they kept me there, until one day I saw my chance. Oh, and I-I made them pay. You know, all the time I was there, I just kept picking up things – little whispers, laughter, gossip: how the clever agents had been betrayed.
AJAY: Brought down by you.
MARY: Me?
MARY : You know I’ll kill you too. You know I will, Ajay.
AJAY : What, you think I care if I die?
AJAY: I’ve dreamed of killing you every night for six years ...
AJAY : ... of squeezing the life out of your treacherous, lying throat.
MARY: I swear to you, Ajay.
Sherlock: What did you hear, Ajay? When you were a prisoner, what exactly did you hear?
AJAY: What did I hear?
AJAY: Ammo. Every day as they tore into me. Ammo. Ammo.  Ammo.  Ammo.
AJAY : We were betrayed!
Sherlock: And they said it was her?
AJAY : You betrayed us!
Sherlock: They said her name?
AJAY: Yeah, they said it was the English woman.
MARY: No! No!
There’s a brief shot of the Houses of Parliament in London, then we’re in Mycroft’s Diogenes office. Mycroft stands in the corner of the room behind his desk with one elbow on the top of a filing cabinet. He is holding his phone to his ear with the other hand.
Sherlock: The English woman. That’s all he heard. Naturally he assumed it was Mary.
MYCROFT: Couldn’t this wait until you’re back?
Sherlock: No, it’s not over. Ajay said that they’d been betrayed. The hostage takers knew AGRA were coming. There was only a voice on the phone, remember, and a code word.
MYCROFT: Ammo, yes, you said.
Sherlock: How’s your Latin, brother dear?
MYCROFT : My Latin?
Sherlock: Amo, amas, amat.
MYCROFT : I love, you love, he loves. What ...?
Sherlock: Not ‘ammo’ as in ‘ammunition’ but ‘amo,’ meaning ...?
MYCROFT: You’d better be right, Sherlock.
PARLIAMENTARY BUILDING. Lady Smallwood walks along a corridor with Vivian the secretary following her holding a folder. They reach a glass door which has a security panel on a stand. Lady Smallwood holds her security pass against it and it beeps and shows a red message reading ACCESS DENIED. She touches the pass to the panel again but it beeps and shows the same message. Looking exasperated, she tries again with the same result. Behind her, Sir Edwin and a uniformed security guard approach.
LADY SMALLWOOD: Bloody thing.
LADY SMALLWOOD: What’s going on?
SIR EDWIN: I’m very sorry, Lady Smallwood. Your security protocols have been temporarily rescinded.
LADY SMALLWOOD: What?!
On an aeroplane, Sherlock sits in an aisle seat with his eyes closed. The Watsons are in the row in front of him. Despite there being three seats, they are not sitting side by side: Mary is in the aisle seat with her head propped up on one hand and her eyes closed, and John is in the window seat looking towards the window. His own voice sounds in his head.
JOHN’s VOICE: So many lies. I don’t just mean you.
FLASHBACK. On the bus, John glances again towards the red-haired woman and smiles to himself. She also smiles towards him, then looks away, licks her lips and then bites her lower lip. John gets off the bus and looks into the side window, seeing his reflection and the flower tucked behind his ear.
Watson: Oh, sh...
)
WOMAN : Hello.
Watson: Ah. Hello.
WOMAN: I like your daisy!
Watson: Thank you, yeah. It’s not really me, though, I don’t think.
WOMAN: No?
Watson: No.
WOMAN : Shame.
Watson: No, it’s too floral for me. I’m more of a knackered-with-weary-old-eyes kind of guy.
WOMAN: Well, I think they’re nice.  Nice eyes.
Watson: Thank you!
WOMAN: Look, look ... I don’t normally do this but, um ...
Watson: But you’re gonna.
WOMAN : Yeah!
Watson: What’s this?
WOMAN: This is me.
Watson: Thank you. Cheers.
WOMAN : Yeah, okay, ’bye!
Watson: ’Bye.
(He stares after her, frowning in mild disbelief, then looks down at the paper and smiles. He turns and walks in the opposite direction but then stops, looking at the paper again and still smiling. He puts down his briefcase and takes his phone from his pocket. Activating it, he sees his screensaver picture of him sitting on the sofa at home with his arm around his wife who is cradling their newborn daughter. He and Mary are smiling at someone off-camera. He looks up, grimacing, and takes a couple of steps to a nearby rubbish bin. He pushes his hand into the gap and almost drops the piece of paper into the bin but then hesitates. He looks up and smiles, then starts to grimace again.
Later, sitting at the kitchen table in his family home, he unfolds the piece of paper and looks at it. The woman has written:
07700 900 552
E xx
John looks at it for a long time, then lifts his head and lets out a silent laugh. He looks down at it again, then picks up his phone, opens up a New Contact and types “E” before adding the phone number and saving it. Your transcriber reaches for the brain bleach. John immediately sends a text message reading simply, “Hey”. He puts the phone down on the table and gets up and walks away. A few moments later the phone chimes and a message appears. It too simply reads, “Hey”.)
Still in flashback and with no indication yet whether this is the same day or is days or even weeks later, the Watsons are lying side by side in bed with their eyes closed.
MARY: No, you’d think we’d have noticed when she was born.
Watson: Hm? Noticed what?
MARY: The little ‘666’ on her forehead.
Watson: That’s ‘The Omen.’
MARY: So?
Watson: Well, you said it was like ‘The Exorcist.’ They’re two different things. She can’t be the Devil and the Antichrist.
MARY: Yeah, can’t she?
MARY: Coming, darling.
MARY: I’m coming.
MARY : Oh, what are you doing?! What are you doing?!
(As she continues chatting to her daughter, John looks at his phone. His eyebrows raise at what he sees, then he frowns. The message reads:
It’s been too long.
John looks across the room towards Rosie’s bedroom as Mary continues to try and soothe the crying baby.)
MARY : Come on. It’s okay.
(John looks back to his phone and types:
I know. Sorry.
After a few moments, the reply comes back:
Miss you.
John looks across to his bedside table for a moment, presumably looking at his clock, then goes back to the phone and types:
You’re up late.
There’s no reply for a few seconds and John again looks across towards Rosie’s room as she continues to wail. Then a new message comes in:
Or early.
Glancing again towards the other bedroom, John types:
Night owl?
The reply comes back almost immediately:
Vampire
John quirks a grin.)
MARY : Oh, you’re not gonna stop crying, are you? I know: shall we go see Daddy?
(Quickly typing and sending
:)
John rolls over and puts the phone face down on the bedside table. The clock on the table shows that it’s five o’clock.)
MARY : Let’s go and see Daddy! Daddy’s here.  It’s okay, Rosie.
Watson: I’ll take her.
MARY: Yeah.
Watson: Yeah, I may as well get up now.
MARY : Hey, baby, it’s Daddy!  It’s your daddy!
Watson: Come here, Rose.
MARY: Yeah!
Watson: Come here, darling. It’s all right.
MARY: Ah, thank you.
DAY TIME. Sitting on the top deck of a bus, John types a new message into his phone:
This isn’t a good idea.
I’m not free.
Things won’t end well.
It was nice to get to know
you a little.
Partway into typing the message he stands up and walks to the top of the stairs, still typing one-handed. Someone rings the bell to alert the driver to stop at the next stop and John walks down the stairs, the message still unsent. Downstairs, when the bus stops and the doors open, he gets off, stops a couple of paces away and adds:
I’m sorry.
Sighing, he sends the message. Grimacing a little, he looks around. The mystery woman is sitting on the bus stop bench smiling at him. John smiles and her own smile widens. John grimaces a bit, baring his teeth, and looks down at his phone and the sent message, then briefly raises his eyebrows and looks across to the woman again.
[Transcriber’s note: For the sake of completeness, I should add that an advertising hoarding on the bus stop shows something which is almost definitely a flag for something in one or both of the future episodes. If you’re avoiding potential spoilers, skip to the next paragraph.
On the hoarding is a photo of a man in his fifties  with a grimace on his face. Beside his head are the words “HE’S BACK” and at the bottom of the poster, partially obscured by John’s body, are the words
A ROWBANE...
BUSINESS...
SERIES ...
IT’S MURDER IN THE...
COMING...
In the present, John stares blankly out of the plane window, lost in thought.
DIOGENES CLUB . In a room similar to but much smaller than Mycroft’s office – and looking very like the type of room in which Jim Moriarty was interrogated – Lady Smallwood sits at a small table facing Mycroft seated on the other side. A mirror is behind her, reflecting both of them. Mycroft’s hands are clasped in front of him on the table and he is rapidly tapping one finger against the other hand.
LADY SMALLWOOD: This is absolutely ridiculous and you know it. How many more times?
MYCROFT: Six years ago you held the brief for foreign operations, code name “Love.”
LADY SMALLWOOD: And you’re basing all this on a code name? On a whispered voice on the telephone? Come on, Mycroft.
MYCROFT: You were the conduit for AGRA. Every assignment, every detail, they got from you.
LADY SMALLWOOD: It was my job.
MYCROFT : Then there was the Tbilisi incident. AGRA went in.
LADY SMALLWOOD: Yes.
MYCROFT: And they were betrayed.
LADY SMALLWOOD : Not by me.
LADY SMALLWOOD: Mycroft, we’ve known each other a long time. I promise you, I haven’t the foggiest idea what all this is about. You wound up AGRA and all the other freelancers.  I haven’t done any of the things you’re accusing me of. Not one.  Not. One.
THE WATSONS’ HOME. John is standing in the living room and now turns to face Mary who is sitting on the sofa.
Watson: D’you think she’ll like bedtime stories? I’d like to do those.
MARY : Yeah?!
Watson: Yeah, I just make a series of gurgling noises at the moment – although she does seem to enjoy ’em.
MARY: Well, I’ll have to give that a go!
MARY : Got a lot to catch up on.
DAY TIME. Sherlock is walking slowly across Vauxhall Bridge. He stops and turns to face the river, his gaze distant and his eyes rapidly flickering back and forth as various memories come to him:
AJAY: You think you understand. You understand nothing.
MYCROFT: Code names Antarctica, Langdale, Porlock and Love ...
MARY: You’d be amazed what a receptionist picks up.
MARY: They know everything.
AJAY: They said it was the English woman.
MYCROFT: Don’t minute any of this.
MARY: They know everything.
THE WATSONS’ HOME. Mary and John are still sitting on the sofa, Mary with her feet curled up under her.
MARY: You don’t make it easy, do you?
Watson: What d’you mean?
MARY : Well, being ...  ... being so perfect.
Watson: Mary ... I-I need to tell you ...
MARY: Hang on.
(Even as she picks up her phone, John’s phone also chirps an alert. Mary’s message reads:
The curtain rises.
The last act.
It’s not over. SH
John’s message reads:
London Aquarium.
Come immediately. SH
MARY: Can you tell me later?
Watson: Yeah.
MARY: Great.
Watson: Yeah.
MARY: Well, no, we can’t just go.
Watson: Rosie.
MARY: Yeah.
Watson: Uh, you go.
MARY: No!
Watson: I’ll, um, come as soon as I’ve found someone. Mrs Hudson.
MARY: Corfu ’til Saturday.
MARY: Molly.
Watson: Uh, yeah, I’ll try.
MARY: Well, we should both stay and wait for her.
Watson: You know that’s not gonna happen. If there’s more to this case, you’re the one who needs to see it.
MARY: Yeah, okay. You win.
NIGHT TIME. COUNTY HALL, SOUTH BANK. Inside the Sea Life London Aquarium housed inside County Hall, Sherlock makes his way along the blue-lit corridors and through the glass tunnels under the water.
TANNOY ANNOUNCEMENT: Ladies and gentlemen, the Aquarium will be closing in five minutes. Please make your way to the exit. Thank you.
Sherlock: Your office said I’d find you here.
VIVIAN: This was always my favourite spot for agents to meet.  We’re like them: ghostly, living in the shadows.
Sherlock: Predatory.
VIVIAN: Well, it depends which side you’re on.  Also, we have to keep moving or we die.
Sherlock: Nice location for the final act. Couldn’t have chosen it better myself. But then I never could resist a touch of the dramatic.
VIVIAN: I just come here to look at the fish.
VIVIAN: I knew this would happen one day.
VIVIAN: It’s like that old story.
Sherlock: I really am a very busy man. Would you mind cutting to the chase?
VIVIAN: You’re very sure of yourself, aren’t you?
Sherlock: With good reason.
VIVIAN: There was once a merchant in a famous market in Baghdad.
Sherlock: I really have never liked this story.
VIVIAN: I’m just like the merchant in the story. I thought I could outrun the inevitable. I’ve always been looking over my shoulder; always expecting to see the grim figure of ...
MARY: ... Death.
Sherlock: Hello, Mary.
MARY: Hey.
Sherlock: John?
MARY: On his way.
Sherlock: Let me introduce Amo.
MARY : You were Amo?  You were the person on the phone that time?
Sherlock: Using AGRA as her private assassination unit.
MARY : Why did you betray us?
VIVIAN: Why does anyone do anything?
Sherlock: Oh, let me guess. Selling secrets?
VIVIAN: Well, it would be churlish to refuse. Worked very well for a few years. I bought a nice cottage in Cornwall on the back of it. But the ambassador in Tbilisi found out. I thought I’d had it.  Then she was taken hostage in that coup.  I couldn’t believe my luck! That bought me a little time.
Sherlock: But then you found out your boss had sent AGRA in.
VIVIAN: Very handy. They were always such reliable killers.
Sherlock: What you didn’t know, Mary, was that this one also tipped off the hostage-takers.
VIVIAN : Lady Smallwood gave the order, but I sent another one to the terrorists with a nice little clue about her code name should anyone have an enquiring mind. Seemed to do the trick.
MARY: And you thought your troubles were over.
VIVIAN: I was tired; tired of the mess of it all.  I just wanted some peace, some clarity. The hostages were killed, AGRA too ...  ... or so I thought. My secret was safe. But apparently not. Just a little peace. That’s all you wanted too, wasn’t it? A family, home. Really, I understand.
VIVIAN: So just let me get out of here, right? Let me just walk away. I’ll vanish. I’ll go forever. What d’you say?
MARY : After what you did?!
Sherlock: Mary, no!
MARY: Okay.
John is in the back of a cab with a phone to his ear.
Watson: London Aquarium. ... Yes, now.
In the Aquarium, Vivian looks down at her pistol which she’s no longer pointing at anyone.
VIVIAN: I was never a field agent. I always thought I’d be rather good.
Sherlock: Well, you handled the operation in Tbilisi very well.
VIVIAN: Thanks.
Sherlock: ... for a secretary.
VIVIAN: What?
Sherlock: Can’t have been easy all those years, sitting in the back keeping your mouth shut when you knew you were cleverer than most of the people in the room.
VIVIAN: I didn’t do this out of jealousy!
Sherlock: No? Same old drudge, day in, day out, never getting out there where all the excitement was. Just back to your little flat on Wigmore Street.
Sherlock: They’ve taken up the pavement outside the Post Office there. The local clay on your shoes is very distinctive.
Sherlock: Yes, your little flat.
VIVIAN: How do you know?
Sherlock: Well, on your salary it would have to be modest and you spent all the money on that cottage, didn’t you, and what are you, widowed or divorced?  Wedding ring’s at least thirty years old and you’ve moved it to another finger. That means you’re sentimentally attached to it but you’re not still married. I favour widowed, given the number of cats you share your life with.
MARY : Sherlock ...
Sherlock: Two Burmese and a tortoiseshell, judging by the cat hairs on your cardigan.
Sherlock: A divorcee’s more likely to look for a new partner; a widow to fill the void left by her dead husband.
MARY: Sherlock, don’t.
Sherlock: Pets do that, or so I’m told, and there’s clearly no-one new in your life, otherwise you wouldn’t be spending your Friday nights in an aquarium. That probably accounts for the drink problem, too: the slight tremor in your hand ...  ... the red wine stain ghosting your top lip. So yes. I say jealousy was your motive after all – to prove how good you are ...
Sherlock: ... to make up for the inadequacies of your little life.
MYCROFT: Well, Mrs Norbury. I must admit this is unexpected.
Sherlock: Vivian Norbury, who outsmarted them all. All except Sherlock Holmes.
Sherlock: There’s no way out.
VIVIAN: So it would seem.  You’ve seen right through me, Mr Holmes.
Sherlock: It’s what I do.
VIVIAN: Maybe I can still surprise you.
LESTRADE: Come on.  Be sensible.
VIVIAN: No, I don’t think so.
VIVIAN : Surprise.
Sherlock: Everything’s fine. It’s gonna be okay.
Sherlock: Get an ambulance.
Sherlock: It’s all right, it’s all right.
Watson: Mary!
MARY: John!
Watson: Mary? Mary?
Watson: Stay with me. Stay with me.
MARY: Oh, come on.
Watson: No, don’t worry. Don’t worry.
MARY: Oh, come on, Doctor, you can do better than that.
Watson: Come on, Mary.
Watson: Mary, come on.
MARY: God, John, I think this is it.
Watson: No-no-no-no, it’s not.
MARY: You made me so happy.
MARY: You gave me everything I could ever, ever ...
Watson: Shh-shh.
MARY: ... want.
Watson: Mary, Mary ...
MARY : Look after Rosie.
MARY: Promise me.
Watson: I promise.
MARY : No.
Watson: Yes, I promise.
MARY : Promise me.
Watson: I promise. I promise.
MARY : Hey, Sherlock.
Sherlock: Yes?
MARY: I ... so like you.
MARY : Did I ever say?
Sherlock: Yes. Yes, y-you did.
MARY: I’m sorry ... for shooting you that time. I’m really sorry.
Sherlock: It’s-it’s all right.
MARY: I think we’re even now, okay?
Sherlock: Okay.
Watson: Mary. Mary.
MARY : I think we’re even; definitely ev... even.
MARY : You ...
MARY : You were my whole world.
MARY : Being Mary Watson ...
MARY: ... was the only life worth living.
Watson: Mary.
MARY: Thank you.
Watson: Mary.
Watson: Don’t you dare.
Watson: You made a vow. You swore it.
Watson: Mary.
The camera pulls up to another tank above the room, and a shark swims across the screen, wiping the scene to a dark corridor along which two police officers are escorting Vivian Norbury. From the look on her face, she has finally realised the seriousness of what she has done, and what the future holds for her.
In a crematorium, a coffin is surrounded by blue flames.
And once again John Watson has no choice but to walk across a graveyard.
Later, we see a close-up of John’s eyes, full of pain. He paces across his living room, repeatedly clenching and unclenching his left hand, the one in which he used to have a tremor. Various baby items are scattered around the room. On the kitchen table his mobile phone buzzes repeatedly but he doesn’t move towards it, now stopped in the living room and gazing in anguish into the distance. As the phone continues to buzz relentlessly, he starts to move again, although it might be that he’s simply rocking from side to side on the spot.
The voice of his occasional therapist Ella overlays the scene.
ELLA : You’ve been having dreams. A recurring dream?
office and Ella looks across to the chair facing her, which is currently offscreen.)
ELLA: D’you want to talk about it?
ELLA: This is a two-way relationship, you know.
ELLA: The whole world has come crashing down around you. Everything’s hopeless, irretrievable. I know that’s what you must feel, but I can only help you if you completely open yourself up to me.
Sherlock: That’s not really my style.
Sherlock: I need to know what to do.
ELLA: Do?
Sherlock: About John.
MYCROFT’S HOME. Mycroft walks into his kitchen, leans his umbrella against a wall and puts down his briefcase. Straightening up and stretching his back with a loud crunching sound, he rubs the back of his neck as he walks across to the fridge and sighs as he opens the door. He looks inside and although we can’t see directly into it, it appears that there’s nothing much – if anything – in there. Sighing again, he closes the door. Attached near the top of the door with a fridge magnet is a takeaway menu for a restaurant called Reigate Square. Other takeaway menus are attached lower down, including one for a Thai restaurant with an elephant on the cover. He pulls the top menu from underneath its magnet, revealing a large square Post-It note on which has been written “13th”, double underlined. Looking at the note for a long moment, Mycroft then reaches into his waistcoat to take out a pocket watch on a chain. Looking at it, he then puts it away and turns to a nearby telephone. He picks it up, dials what appears to be a speed-dial number and puts the phone to his ear.
MYCROFT: Put me through to Sherrinford, please. ... Yes, I’ll wait.
BAKER STREET. DAY TIME.
MRS HUDSON : Nothing will ever be the same again, will it?
Sherlock: I’m afraid it won’t.
MRS HUDSON: We’ll have to rally round, I expect. Do our bit.  Look after little Rosie.
Sherlock: Just going to, um ...  ... look through these things. There might be a case.
MRS HUDSON: A case?
MRS HUDSON: Oh. You’re not up to it, are you?
Sherlock: Work is the best antidote to sorrow, Mrs Hudson.
MRS HUDSON: Yes, yes, I expect you’re right.  I’ll make some tea, shall I?
Sherlock: Mrs Hudson?
MRS HUDSON : Yes, Sherlock?
Sherlock: If you ever think I’m becoming a bit ...  ... full of myself, cocky or ...  ... over-confident ...
MRS HUDSON: Yes?
Sherlock: ... would you just say the word ‘Norbury’ to me, would you?
MRS HUDSON: Norbury.
Sherlock: Just that.  I’d be very grateful.
Sherlock: What’s this?
MRS HUDSON: Oh, I brought that up. It was mixed up with my things.
(Sherlock opens the envelope and pulls out a DVD. It is a plain white disc but written on it are the words
MISS ME?
He stares down at it and Mrs Hudson gets out of her chair with a look of shock on her face.)
MRS HUDSON: Oh God. Is that ...
Sherlock: Must be.
MRS HUDSON: Oh!
Sherlock: I knew it wouldn’t end like this. I knew Moriarty made plans.
MARY: Thought that would get your attention.
MRS HUDSON: Oh!
MARY: So, this is in case ...  ... in case the day comes. If you are watching this, I’m ... probably dead. I hope I can have an ordinary life, but who knows? Nothing’s certain; nothing’s written. My old life – it was full of consequences.  The danger was the fun part, but you can’t outrun that forever.  You need to remember that, so ... I’m giving you a case, Sherlock.
MARY: Might be the hardest case of your career. When I’m ... gone – if I’m gone – I need you to do something for me.
WATSON HOME. Apparently Sherlock has knocked on the door and then stepped back out of the porch. The door opens and Molly comes out, holding Rosie in her arms. She closes the door and comes out to the porch. Sherlock smiles down at his goddaughter.
MOLLY : Hi.
Sherlock: I just ... wondered how things were going and ... and if there was anything I could do.
MOLLY: It’s, uh, it’s from John.
Sherlock: Right.
MOLLY: You don’t need to read it now.
MOLLY: I’m sorry, Sherlock. He says ... Jo-John said if you were to come round asking after him, offering to help ...
Sherlock: Yes?
MOLLY : He ... said he’d r... that he’d rather have anyone but you.  Anyone.
MARY : I’m giving you a case, Sherlock.
MARY : When I’m gone – if I’m ...  ... gone – I need you to do something for me.
MARY: Save John Watson.
MARY: Save him, Sherlock.
MARY: Save him.
Sherlock is walking along the south bank of the Thames near MI6 headquarters.
Sherlock: When does the path we walk on lock around our feet? When does the road become a river with only one destination? Death waits for us all in Samarra. But can Samarra be avoided?
WOMAN : Tell me about your morning. Start from the beginning.
Watson: I woke up.
THERAPIST: How did you sleep?
Watson: I didn’t. I don’t.
THERAPIST: You just said you woke up.
Watson: I stopped lying down.
THERAPIST : Alone?
Watson: Of course alone.
THERAPIST: I meant Rosie, your daughter.
Watson: Uh, she’s with friends.
THERAPIST: Why?
Watson: Can’t always cope ... and, uh, last night wasn’t ... good.
THERAPIST: That’s understandable.
Watson: Is it? Why? Why is it understandable? Why does everything have to be understandable?
Watson: Why can’t, um, some things be unacceptable and-and we just say that?
THERAPIST: I only mean it’s okay.
Watson: I’m letting my daughter down. How the hell is that okay?
THERAPIST : You just lost your wife.
Watson: And Rosie just lost her mother.
(He pulls in a harsh breath, then clears his throat.
In flashback, John sits at his kitchen table with a steaming mug beside him. He lifts his hands, clasps them together and props his chin on them. In the background, someone is moving around in the living room. Whoever it is is very out of focus but their shape suggests that it’s a woman.)
THERAPIST : You are holding yourself to an unreasonable standard.
Watson: No, I’m failing to.
THERAPIST: So there is no-one you talk to, confide in?
Watson: No-one.
Watson: Oh, I’m picking up Rosie this afternoon, after I’ve seen my therapist. Got a new one; seeing her today.
MARY : Are you gonna tell her about me?
Watson: No.
MARY : Why not?
Watson: ’Cause I can’t.
MARY : Why not?
Watson: Because I can’t ... you know I can’t. She thinks you’re dead.
MARY : John, you’ve got to remember. It’s important.
MARY: I am dead.
MARY: Please, for your own sake and for Rosie’s. This isn’t real. I’m dead.
MARY: John. Look at me.
Watson: Hm.
MARY: I’m not here.
MARY: You know that, don’t you?
Watson: Okay, I’ll see you later.
THERAPIST : Is there anything you’re not telling me?
Watson: No.
THERAPIST: What are you looking at?
Watson: Nothing.
THERAPIST : You keep glancing to my left.
Watson: Oh, I suppose I was just ... looking away.
THERAPIST: There is a difference between looking away and looking to. I tend to notice these things.
Watson: I’m sure.
THERAPIST: Now I am reminding you of your friend, I think.
Watson: It’s not necessarily a good thing.
THERAPIST: Do you talk to Sherlock Holmes?
Watson: I haven’t seen him. No-one’s seen him. He’s locked himself away in his flat. God knows what he’s up to.
THERAPIST: Do you blame him?
Watson: I don’t blame ... I don’t think about him.
THERAPIST: Has he attempted to make contact with you?
Watson: No.
THERAPIST: How can you be sure? He might have tried.
Watson: No, if Sherlock Holmes wants to get in touch, that’s not something you can fail to notice.
can be heard from the car’s stereo. The driver gets out but the person is out of focus and we can’t see who it is. John squints up at the helicopter again.)
THERAPIST : Well, now ...
THERAPIST: ... won’t you introduce me?
OPENING CREDITS.
LONDON. DUSK. A man in his fifties, wearing a white suit, stands on the balcony of a riverside building in the Southwark area, looking at the view. The balcony is many storeys above ground. We might recognise him from the advertisement on the bus shelter where John last saw his mystery redhead.
Shortly afterwards, the man has come off the balcony into a room which has floor-to-ceiling glass windows on three sides. He shakes hands with a white-haired man and then walks over to one of the windows to look outside. There are several other people in the room chatting with each other around a large white oval table in the middle of the room.
In a cut-away shot, news footage is shown of the man, wearing a black tuxedo and coming down a grand staircase smiling and waving as cameras flash and reporters shout questions. The footage is captioned News 24/7 on the bottom left of the screen and on the right the man is identified as Culverton Smith and underneath his name, Entrepreneur / Philanthropist. He continues downstairs into the throng of reporters who continue to take photos and hold microphones towards him. He raises his hands to them, smiling as he continues onwards.
SMITH : No, thank you, thank you.
FAITH : Hello.
CORNELIA: Mr Smith?
CORNELIA: Whenever you’re ready.
(Smith turns and looks towards the table where everyone is now sitting down, still talking to each other.
There’s another brief cut-away to the news footage. Smith has now stopped to talk to the reporters.)
SMITH: Uh, the charity fun...
SMITH: Now, please.
CORNELIA : Bring them through.
SMITH: It’s difficult having such good friends.
SMITH: Friends are people you want to share with. Friends and ...
SMITH: ... family.
SMITH : What’s the very worst thing you can do to your very best friends?
IVAN: Something on your mind?
SMITH: Yes, Ivan. Oh, yes.
IVAN: Whatever you tell us stays in this room. I think I speak for everyone.
FAITH: Well? What is the worst thing you could do?
SMITH: Tell them your darkest secret.  Because if you tell them and they decide they’d rather not know, you can’t take it back. You can’t unsay it.  Once you’ve opened your heart, you can’t close it again.
SMITH: I’m kidding!
SMITH: Of course you can.
SMITH: Well, everyone, please, roll up your right sleeves. Roll up your right sleeves. Come on.
SMITH: Oh, i-it’s, uh, it’s a bit of insurance.
FAITH: I don’t understand.  What is that?
IVAN : TD12. One of ours.
FAITH: One of yours?
IVAN: We make it, my company – TD12. Sells mainly to dentists and hospitals for minor surgical procedures. Interferes with ...
IVAN: ... the memory.
SMITH : The memory, yes!
SMITH: I-I-I want to thank you, Ivan, for allowing me to use it.
IVAN: Well, I didn’t exactly know who you were going to be using it on.
FAITH: You mean you didn’t ask?
SMITH : Is everyone ready?
FAITH : No.
SMITH : Please, roll up your sleeves. Come on – roll up!
(In the blurry cut-away, Faith drops her cane to the floor and leans heavily on a desk, then straightens up and looks down to run her finger over her right arm just below the elbow.
In the glass room, the nurses are beginning to attach drips to the right arms of other seated guests, although Faith’s nurse hasn’t started yet.)
THE OTHER FEMALE GUEST: This is obscene.
SMITH: All I’m doing, Faith, dear ...  ... is getting something off my chest ...  ... without getting it on yours.
SMITH: What you’re about to hear me say may horrify you, but you will forget it.
SMITH : If you think about it, civilisation has always depended on a measure of elective ignorance.
(Very brief cut-away clip of Smith, wearing a blue suit, laughing raucously. It looks as if he’s in a TV studio.
In the glass room Smith chuckles slightly and passes Faith’s arm to her nurse.
In the blurry cut-away, Faith has sat down at the desk and reaches down to a small round sticking plaster on her right arm just below the elbow.
In the glass room the nurse finishes attaching a drip to Faith’s right arm. Smith is now seated in the chair at the head of the table.)
SMITH: These drip feeds will keep the drug in your bloodstreams at exactly the right levels.
SMITH: Nothing that is happening to you now will stay with you for more than a few minutes.  I’m afraid that some of the memories you’ve had up to this point might also be ...
SMITH: ... corrupted.
SMITH: I’m going to share something with you now; something personal and of importance to me.
SMITH: I have a need to confess, but you – I think – might have a need to forget.  By the end of this, you’ll be free to go. And don’t worry – by the time you’re back in the outside world, you will not remember any of what you’ve heard.
FAITH: Ignorance is bliss.
SMITH: Well, what’s wrong with bliss?!
SMITH : Some of you know each other and some of you don’t.
SMITH: Please, be aware that one of you is a high-ranking police officer.
SMITH: One of you is a member of the judiciary.
SMITH: One of you sits on the board of a prominent broadcaster.
SMITH: Two of you work for me and one of you, of course, is my lovely daughter, Faith.
(He reaches out and puts his hand on the back of her head, rubbing it quite hard.
In the cut-away, Faith has written ”ME” next to the bloodstain. Her hand drags across the paper, smearing the blood through the word.)
SMITH: You are the people I need to hear me. I have made millions, for myself, for the people round this table, for millions of people I’ve never even met.
SMITH : There are charities that I support who wouldn’t exist without me.
(Brief cut-away of him wearing a tracksuit and breaking the tape at the end of a fun run, raising his arms in triumph. Someone dressed in a large bird costume is also finishing the race just behind him.
Brief cut-away of Smith cutting a ribbon at the opening of The Culverton Smith Wing at a hospital on Thursday 20th July 2014 as shown on a plaque on the wall nearby. Medical staff stand behind him applauding.)
SMITH: If life is a balance sheet – and I think it is – well, I believe I’m in credit!
SMITH: But I have a situation that needs to be ... managed ...
SMITH: I have a problem ... and there is only one way that I can solve it.
FAITH : And what’s that?
SMITH: I’m terribly sorry.
SMITH: I need to kill someone.
FAITH : Who?
(Smith chuckles.
In the cut-away, Faith writes ”Who?” She puts her pen down and tears the sheet of paper from the notepad. At the open door of what we presume is her office, Ivan comes to the doorway holding his jacket in one hand and undoing the top button of his shirt. He stops, wobbling slightly.)
IVAN : Were we in a meeting? Was there a meeting?
SMITH: I need to kill someone.
SMITH: Faith.
SMITH: My dear, dear child.
FAITH : I can’t remember. Can’t remember who you’re gonna kill.
SMITH: Dear, in five minutes you won’t even remember why you were crying.
SMITH: The others are all fine.
FAITH: I know.
SMITH: You know, they’ve gone down the pub.  It’s all on me.
SMITH: Oh, Faith. Don’t you think I should take that? It’s only going to upset you.
Without segue, a pair of hands is holding the piece of paper which had been folded in half, as shown by the sharp crease in it, but is now open.
FAITH : Three years ago ...
FAITH: ... my father told me he wanted to kill someone. One word, Mr Holmes ...
FAITH: ... and it changed my world forever.
FAITH: Just one word.
Sherlock: What word?
FAITH : A name.
Sherlock: What name?
FAITH : I can’t remember.
FAITH: I can’t remember who my father wanted to kill ...  ... and I don’t know if he ever did it.
Sherlock: Well, you’ve changed. You no longer top up your tan and your roots are showing.
Sherlock: Letting yourself go?
FAITH: Do you ever look in the mirror and want to see someone else?
Sherlock: No. Do you own an American car?
FAITH: I’m sorry?
Sherlock: No, not American; left-hand drive, that’s what I mean.
FAITH: No. Why-why do you ask?
Sherlock: Not sure, actually.  Probably just noticed something.
(Above and to the left of her head from his perspective, imaginary chalk writing appears in large letters reading “SOMETHING” and a chalk line draws down to form an arrow pointing to the bottom right of her skirt – again from Sherlock’s perspective. He blinks a couple of times and focuses in to where there’s a straight dark line of dirt on the skirt, then he grimaces and gestures angrily in front of him. The imaginary chalk disperses and disappears.
Sherlock looks down at his hand held out in front of him and sees that it’s trembling. He clenches it into a fist with a sharp snap, then stretches the fingers out again. They continue to tremble.)
FAITH: Are you okay?
Sherlock: Oh, of course you don’t own a car. You don’t need one, do you, living in isolation, no human contact, no visitors.
FAITH : Okay, how do you know that?
Sherlock: It’s all here, isn’t it? Look.
Sherlock: Cost-cutting’s clearly a priority for you. Look at the size of your kitchen: teeny-tiny.  Must be a bit annoying when you’re such a keen cook.
FAITH: I don’t understand.
Sherlock: Hang on a minute ...  ... I was looking out of the window. Why was I doing that?
FAITH: I don’t know!
Sherlock: Me either. Must have had a reason.  It’ll come back to me.
Sherlock: Presumably you downsized when you ... when you left your job ...  ... and maybe when you ended your relationship.
FAITH: You can’t know that.
Sherlock: ’Course I can. There wasn’t anything physical going on, was there?  Quite some time, in fact.
Sherlock: There, see? It’s obvious.
FAITH : You can’t tell things like that from a piece of paper.
Sherlock: Think I just did, didn’t I?  I’m sure that was me.
FAITH: How?
Sherlock: Dunno.  Just sort of ... happens, really.  It’s ... like a reflex. I can’t stop it.
Sherlock: Coat.
FAITH: I don’t have a coat.
Sherlock: Yeah, that’s what I just noticed. I wonder why?
WIGGINS: Who you talkin’ to?
Sherlock: Piss off.
FAITH: So what do you think?
Sherlock: Of what?
FAITH: My case.
Sherlock: Oh, it’s way too weird for me. Go to the police; they’re really excellent at dealing with this complicated sort of stuff. Tell them I sent you; that ought to get a reaction.
Sherlock: Night-night.
before rolling back to ‘0g’ when he takes his hand away again. Giving the almost-frozen Faith a look, he turns and walks back across the room, wiping out the chalk as he walks across in front of it and he is back in his previous position when the bag goes into normal speed and Faith catches it. She stands up and walks towards him as he slides open the kitchen doors and starts to walk through them.)
FAITH: Please.
FAITH: I have no-one else to turn to.
Sherlock: Yes, but I’m very busy at the moment. I have to drink a cup of tea.
WIGGINS: Is “cup of tea” code?
Sherlock: It’s a cup of tea.
WIGGINS: Because you might prefer some ...  ... “coffee.”
FAITH: You’re my last hope.
Sherlock: Really? That’s bad luck, isn’t it? Goodnight. Go away.
WIGGINS: What’s bad luck?
Sherlock: Stop talking. It makes me aware of your existence.
WIGGINS: I always ’ave bad luck. It’s congenital.
Sherlock: Handbag.
WIGGINS: That’s not rude. Congenital: it just means ...
Sherlock: Handbag!
(Faith has gone.
Downstairs, Faith is just opening the front door. Outside torrential rain is pouring down.)
Sherlock: Stop. Wait!
Sherlock: Your life is not your own. Keep your hands off it, do you hear me?
Sherlock: Off it.  Off it.
FAITH: Sorry?  What? What are you talking about?
Sherlock: Your skirt.
FAITH: My skirt?
Sherlock: Look at the hem of it! That’s what I noticed. I’m ...  ... still catching up with my brain. It’s terribly fast.
Sherlock: Those markings. Do you see them?
Sherlock: You only get marks like that by trapping the hem of your skirt in a car door but they’re on the left-hand side, so you weren’t driving; you were in the passenger seat.
FAITH: I came in a taxi.
Sherlock: There is no taxi waiting in the street outside. That’s what I checked when I went to the window. And you’ve got all the way to the door and not made any move to phone for one, and look at you. You didn’t even bring a coat – in this rain? Now, well, that might mean nothing, except for the angle of the scars on your left forearm; you know, under that sleeve that you keep pulling down.
FAITH : Y-you never saw them.
Sherlock: No, I didn’t, so thank you for confirming my hypothesis. Don’t really need to check that the angle’s consistent with self-harm, do I?
FAITH: No.
Sherlock: Then you can keep your scars. I want to see your handbag.
FAITH: Why?
Sherlock: It’s too heavy. You said I was your last hope and now you’re going out into the night with no plan on how you’re getting home ... and a gun.
Sherlock: Chips.
FAITH: Chips?
Sherlock: You’re suicidal. You’re allowed chips, trust me. It’s about the only perk.
MRS HUDSON : Sherlock?
MRS HUDSON : Are you going out?
Sherlock: I think I remember the way.  It’s through there, isn’t it?
MRS HUDSON : Oh, you’re in no state. Look at you.
Sherlock: Yeah, well, I’ve got a friend with me, so ...
MRS HUDSON: What friend?
Sherlock: ’Bye!
MRS HUDSON : Oh!
Sherlock: Come on.
TV FOOTAGE. Smith, wearing a suit and tie, looks directly into the camera.
SMITH: I’m Culverton Smith, and in this election year I’ll be voting ...
At what appears to be a formal reception of some kind, Mycroft – wearing a suit and bow tie and holding his phone in one hand – walks out of a room and sighs silently at the person waiting for him.
MYCROFT: For God’s sake. I was talking to the prime minister.
MAN : I am sorry, Mr Holmes. It’s your brother.
MAN: He’s left his flat.
MYCROFT : Was it on fire?
TV FOOTAGE. Smith, wearing a denim jacket with a handkerchief in the breast pocket and an open-necked pink shirt, looks on excitedly as an offscreen waiter ignites the contents of a wide flat metal dish beside his table in a restaurant. He grins quirkily into the camera, then laughs silently.
SMITH : Even when I’m on the road, I still like quality food.
Someone squirts tomato ketchup onto a cardboard carton of chips. Sherlock and Faith are standing under the awning of a fish and chips stand while the rain pours down. Not long afterwards they are sitting on the bench of a covered bus stop outside a church. Sherlock is holding the piece of paper that Faith gave him. The rain is easing up.
Sherlock: You see the fold in the middle? For the first few months you kept this hidden, folded inside a book.
Sherlock: Must have been a tightly packed shelf, going by the severity of the crease.
Sherlock: So obviously you were keeping it hidden from someone living in the same house at a level of intimacy where privacy could not be assumed.
Sherlock: Conclusion: relationship.
Sherlock: Not any more, though.
Sherlock: There’s a pinprick at the top of the paper.
Sherlock: For the past few months it’s been on open display on a wall. Conclusion: relationship is over.
Sherlock: The paper’s been exposed to steam and a variety of cooking smells ...
Sherlock: ... so it must have been on display in the kitchen.  Lots of different spices. You’re suicidal, alone and strapped for cash, yet you’re still cooking to impress. You’re keen, then. The kitchen is the most public room in any house, but since any visitor could be expected to ask about a note like this, I have to assume you don’t have any. You’ve isolated yourself.
FAITH: Amazing.
Sherlock: I know.
FAITH: I meant the chips.
Sherlock: Hm.
Sherlock: Let’s go for a walk.
In a surveillance room, presumably in MI5’s headquarters, a wall is full of screens showing CCTV footage of various areas of the city as well as the live footage from the helicopter. Two screens to the left of the others have street maps of the area east of Hyde Park, one in slightly tighter focus than the other, and a red dot is flashing and bleeping on one of the maps.
A mobile phone shows a close-up of its active screen indicating an incoming call. The caller is identified as Mycroft. John is sitting on the end of his bed and Mary stands at the door leading to Rosie’s bedroom, looking down at the phone.
MARY: You should answer it.
Watson: It’s Mycroft.
MARY: Might be about Sherlock.
Watson: Of course it’s about Sherlock. Everything’s about Sherlock.
FAITH : How did you know my kitchen was tiny?
Sherlock: Look at the fading pattern on the paper. It’s not much but it’s enough to know your kitchen window faces east. Now, kitchen noticeboards ...
Sherlock: By instinct we place them at eye level where there’s natural light.
Sherlock: Now look: the sun’s only struck the bottom two thirds ...  ... but the line is straight, so that means we know the paper is facing the window.
Sherlock: But because the top section is unaffected ...  ... we know the sunlight can only be entering the room at a steep angle.
Sherlock: If the sunlight was able to penetrate the room when the sun was lower in the sky ...
Sherlock: ... then the paper would be equally faded top to bottom.
)
Sherlock: But no. It only makes it when the sun is at its zenith, so I’m betting that you live in a narrow street on the ground floor.
Sherlock: Now, if steeply angled sunlight manages to hit eye level on the wall opposite the window, then what do we know about the room?
Sherlock: The room’s small.
FAITH: Oh.
FAITH: Big Brother is watching you!
Sherlock: Literally.
At MI5, or wherever it is, Mycroft walks into the surveillance room, a grim look on his face. Lady Smallwood is standing behind the computer desks.
LADY SMALLWOOD: We can keep tabs. You didn’t have to come in.
MYCROFT: I was talking to the prime minister.
LADY SMALLWOOD: Oh, I see.
MYCROFT: What’s he doing? Why’s he just wandering about like a fool?
LADY SMALLWOOD: She died, Mycroft. He’s probably still in shock.
MYCROFT: Everybody dies. It’s the one thing human beings can be relied upon to do. How can it still come as a surprise to people?
LADY SMALLWOOD : You sound cross. Am I going to be taken away by security again?
MYCROFT: I have, I think, apologised extensively.
LADY SMALLWOOD: You haven’t made it up to me.
MYCROFT: And how am I supposed to do that?
FAITH : Sex.
Sherlock: I’m sorry?
FAITH: Sex. How did you know I wasn’t ... getting any?
Sherlock: It’s all about the blood.
Sherlock: This one comes from the very first night. You can see the pen marks over it. I think you discovered that pain stimulated your memory, so you tried it again later. I’m no expert, but I assume that since your lover failed to notice an increasing number of scars over a period of months, that the relationship was no longer intimate.
FAITH: How do you know he didn’t notice?
Sherlock: Oh, well, because he would have done something about it.
FAITH: Would he?
Sherlock: Wouldn’t he? Isn’t that what you people do?
FAITH: Well, that’s interesting.
Sherlock: What is?
FAITH: The way you think.
Sherlock: Superbly?
FAITH: Sweetly.
Sherlock: I’m not sweet; I’m just high.
Sherlock: This way.
FAITH: What? We just came that way.
Sherlock: I know. It’s a plan.
FAITH : What plan?
In the MI5 surveillance room, several agents start to laugh. Mycroft, with his phone raised to his ear, looks at the wall screens.
MYCROFT: What is it? What-what now?
AGENT : Sorry. Um, traced his route on the map.
The left-hand side of the map is obscured by either Mycroft’s or Lady S’s shoulder but the rest of the stronger red lines spell out
U
C
K
O
F  F
The tracking signal is currently flashing and beeping at the top right-hand corner of the ‘K,’ so the words apparently haven’t been written directly left to right.
Out on the street, Sherlock looks up to a nearby surveillance camera, smiles and raises his can of energy drink to it in salute before taking a swig from it. Mycroft, with his phone raised to his ear again, sighs.)
MYCROFT: Is he with someone?
AGENT: Not sure. We keep losing visual. Mostly we’re tracking his phone.
TV FOOTAGE. As the audience sitting behind him applauds and cheers, Smith sits at a table with three large red buttons on it. A man and woman sit either side of him behind the other two buttons. They too applaud as Smith slams his hand down onto his button. He points towards the camera in front of him.
SMITH: Don’t call us; we’ll call...
Watson: I’m trying to sleep. Can you stop ringing my damn phone?
MYCROFT : Sherlock has left his flat for the first time in a week, so I’m having him tracked.
Watson: Nice. It’s very touching how you can hijack the machinery of the state to look after your own family. Can I go to sleep now?
MYCROFT : Sherlock gone rogue is a legitimate security concern. The fact that I’m his brother changes absolutely nothing. It didn’t the last time and I assure you it won’t with ...
MYCROFT : ... with Sherlock.
Watson: Sorry, what?
MYCROFT: Please phone me if he gets in contact. Thank you.
(After a moment, John lowers his phone and terminates the call.
In the surveillance room, Lady Smallwood turns to Mycroft.)
LADY SMALLWOOD: Do you still speak to Sherrinford?
MYCROFT: I get regular updates.
LADY SMALLWOOD: And?
MYCROFT : Sherrinford is secure.
Sherlock and Faith are walking across the southern Golden Jubilee Bridge beside Hungerford Bridge. He is holding her cane and she has her right arm linked through his left.)
FAITH: Are we gonna walk all night?
Sherlock: Possibly. It’s a long word.
FAITH: What is?
Sherlock: “Bollocks.”
Fast and brief clips show Sherlock’s journey continuing, including the Houses of Parliament and Trafalgar Square. One overhead shot shows Sherlock walking on a roundabout just south of Trafalgar Square which has a statue nearby of King Charles I mounted on a horse. Faith stands a few yards away, watching him. The clips move on to another area of Trafalgar Square, then The Mall, then onto the Millennium Bridge looking towards Southwark Bridge and the Shard.  The sun is starting to rise. Over the latter part of the footage, the voice of Evan Davis, the main presenter of the week-night BBC show Newsnight can be heard and as he continues speaking we switch to the studio.
EVAN DAVIS: Culverton Smith. All this charity work: what’s in it for you?
SMITH : We must be careful not to burn our bridges.
DAWN. Sherlock and Faith are sitting on a bench on the South Bank not far from Hungerford Bridge. Facing the river, they each hold a filled half baguette wrapped in a paper serviette. Many pigeons are pecking at the ground a few feet away.
Sherlock: D’you know why I’m going to take your case? Because of the one impossible thing you’ve said.
FAITH: What impossible thing?
Sherlock: You said your life turned on one word.
FAITH: Yes: the name of the person my father wanted to kill.
Sherlock: That’s the impossible thing. Just that, right there.
FAITH: What’s impossible?
Sherlock: Names aren’t one word. They’re always at least two. Sherlock Holmes; Faith Smith; Santa Claus; Winston Churchill; Napoleon Bonaparte. Actually, just ‘Napoleon’ would do.
FAITH: Or Elvis?
Sherlock: Well, I think we can rule both of them out as targets.
FAITH: Okay, I got it wrong, then. It wasn’t only one word; it can’t have been.
Sherlock: And you remember quite distinctly that your whole life turned on one word, so that happened, I don’t doubt it, but how can that word be a name – a name you instantly recognised that tore your world apart?
FAITH: Okay, well, how?
Sherlock: No idea. Yet.  But I don’t work for free.
FAITH: D’you take cash?
Sherlock: Not cash, no.
Sherlock: “Taking your own life.” Interesting expression. Taking it from who? Oh, once it’s over, it’s not you who’ll miss it.
Sherlock: Your own death is something that happens to everybody else.
Sherlock: Your life is not your own.  Keep your hands off it.
FAITH: You’re not what I expected. You’re ...
Sherlock: What ... what am I?
FAITH: Nicer.
Sherlock: Than who?
FAITH : Anyone.
CHILD’s VOICE : ♪ I that am lost
Oh, who will find me ... ♪
CHILD’s VOICE : ♪ Deep down be... ♪
Sherlock: Sorry, I ...
Sherlock: Faith? Faith?
Sherlock is walking along the streets, perhaps making his way home. His own words echo in his head.
SHERLOCK’s VOICE : You said your life turned on one word. A name can’t be one word.
MOLLY’s VOICE : ... if you were to come round asking after him, that he’d rather have anyone but you.
MOLLY: Anyone.
FAITH’s VOICE : You’re not what I expected.
SHERLOCK’s VOICE : What ... what am I?
FAITH’s VOICE : Nicer.
SHERLOCK’s VOICE: Than who?
FAITH : Anyone.
MARY’s VOICE : Don’t think anyone else is going to save him, because there isn’t anyone.
FAITH’s VOICE : Anyone.
MOLLY’s VOICE : Anyone.
FAITH’s VOICE : Anyone.
MOLLY’s VOICE : Anyone.
MARY’s VOICE : Anyone.
SMITH : I have a situation ...
SMITH  ... that needs to be managed.
SMITH : There’s only one way that I can solve it.
FAITH: And what’s that?
SMITH: I need to kill someone.
FAITH : Who?
Sherlock: Who?
SMITH: Anyone!
Sherlock: Of course!
Sherlock: He doesn’t want to kill one person; he wants to kill anyone.  He’s a serial killer!
SMITH : Anyone.
Sherlock: He could be.
SMITH: Anyone.
Sherlock: Why not? Why shouldn’t he be?
DRIVER: Hey, you! What’s the matter with you?
SMITH’s VOICE : Anyone!
DRIVER: Do you know where you are? Are you drunk?
WIGGINS: Shezza.
Sherlock: What are you doing here?
WIGGINS : What were you doing in the middle of a bloody street?
Sherlock: You should be at Baker Street.
WIGGINS : I am. So are you.
WIGGINS : They found your address; they brought you here.
WIGGINS: You’ve ’ad too much ...
WIGGINS: ... an’ that’s me sayin’ this.
(Flailing in panic, Sherlock stumbles backwards and up onto the now solid sofa. His back ought to crash into the wall but instead he lands flat on his back on the rug some distance in front of the sofa.
In a brief cut-away, Smith is on TV looking bored as the audience applauds behind him. He gestures towards the camera.)
SMITH: Kill.
(He smacks his hand down onto the big red button on the table in front of him.
In 221 Sherlock struggles to turn over onto his side. Then, without transition he’s back on his feet, possibly standing on the sofa, and he turns and stares around the room wide-eyed.
Brief cut-away of Smith in his tracksuit during a fun run, holding up his index fingers and thumbs to the crowd as he forms the letter ‘W’ with them.
WIGGINS’ VOICE : Sherlock.
Sherlock rolls onto his back again on the rug.
In a cut-away of a TV show, Smith stands inside the door of a shop, looking out through the glass. A female assistant stands at a cash register deeper in the shop. Smith reaches up to a sign on the door and turns it around so that from outside it reads “Sorry We’re CLOSED”. In the bottom left-hand corner of the screen are the words “BUSYNESS KILLER” except the ‘Y’ is actually a pair of scissors. The word KILLER is in red. Presumably this is the name of a TV show in which he is appearing/starring.
In 221B Sherlock elevates off the rug without using his hands or feet. Bill stares in shock. By the door to the landing, Sherlock begins walking up the wall. Floating impossibly sideways, he clumsily steps over a lot of magazines piled up against the wall, then puts his feet together and turns towards Bill.
Back out in the narrow street, Smith smiles ecstatically.)
SMITH : Anyone.
MOLLY’s VOICE : Anyone.
Sherlock: They’re always poor ...
Sherlock: ... and lonely, and strange.
Sherlock: But those are only the ones we catch.
WIGGINS : Who do we catch?
Sherlock: Serial killers.
(Brief cut-away of Smith, still in the previous TV studio, laughing and pointing to something in front of him while the offscreen audience also laugh and whoop.
Sherlock is back on the wall, standing horizontally above the frosted glass window. He spins on the spot, his coat flaring out around him.)
Sherlock: What if you were rich and ...
(He squeezes his eyes shut.
Very brief cut-away of Smith in his tuxedo in a studio or theatre, smiling and clapping his hands together.)
Sherlock: ... powerful and necessary.
.
Again horizontal on the wall, Sherlock steps unsteadily downward, putting one foot on the arm of the chair beside the sofa.)
SMITH : Anyone.
(In the narrow street Smith puts the back of one hand to his mouth as he giggles.
Horizontally, Sherlock reaches across to put his hands on the wall behind the sofa.)
Sherlock: What if ...
Sherlock: ... you had the compulsion to kill, and money? What then?
(Brief cut-away – presumably imaginary – of Smith standing in front of the sofa in 221B’s living room. Wearing a blue shirt and tie, he folds his arms and smiles.
Sherlock, standing on the right arm of the sofa  and tilted towards the sofa at an impossible angle, topples forward and crashes down onto the sofa. Bill watches him go with a look of shock. Sherlock’s eyes close as his body settles onto the cushions.
The camera pans down and an overhead shot of a road rises into the bottom half of the screen. Painted on the road in white paint are the words “THREE WEEKS LATER”. A few moments later a red car speeds over the words, and a police car follows, its siren wailing.
We switch to a view from the red car as “Ode to Joy” blares out of its speakers. Then from an outside perspective the car rapidly overtakes another one and heads towards a roundabout, entering the roundabout without slowing. The car skids around the roundabout, almost sideways at one point, while up above a helicopter follows the chase. The car speeds off down another road and we get a brief view from inside the car and the driver’s left hand gripping the steering wheel while the helicopter can be seen through the windscreen soaring overhead. The car heads for another roundabout, now pursued by two police cars. The red car turns left and is followed by the first police car but the second one goes straight on, presumably taking a short cut to intercept the chase further on. The red car skids around a right turn into a residential road. As the second police car approaches from in front, the driver throws the car into a spectacular U-turn and crashes into several black plastic rubbish bins outside the houses. One of the bins flies into the air and then crashes to the ground. As the vehicles come to a halt and the helicopter hovers overhead, John opens the front door of his therapist’s house, walks out and looks at the car and then squints up at the chopper.
THERAPIST : Well, now ...
THERAPIST: ... won’t you introduce me?
POLICE OFFICER: Right, you there. Stop right where you are.
MRS HUDSON: Huh? What?
MRS HUDSON: Oh, John ...
Watson: Mrs Hudson ...
POLICE OFFICER: Do you have any idea what speed you were going at?
MRS HUDSON: Well, of course not. I was on the phone.
MRS HUDSON: Oh ...  ... it’s for you, by the way.
POLICE OFFICER : For me?
MRS HUDSON : It’s the government.
POLICE OFFICER: The what?!
Watson: What’s going on? What’s wrong?
POLICE OFFICER : Hello?
MYCROFT’s VOICE : My name is Mycroft Holmes and I am speaking to you from the Cabinet Office.
Watson: Look at the state of you! Mrs H, what have you been doing?!
(Apparently the police officer recognises Mycroft’s name, because he takes off his cap even though Mycroft obviously can’t see it.
Outside the front door Mrs H is pointing vaguely up to the helicopter.)
Watson: What’s happened?
MRS HUDSON : It’s Sherlock!  You’ve no idea what I’ve been through!
FLASHBACK. 221 BAKER STREET. As the “Le nozze di Figaro” overture plays in the background, Mrs Hudson creeps slowly and nervously up the stairs towards the first floor, clinging anxiously to the bannisters. From the flat come various and random angry cries from Sherlock and the crashing noises of objects being flung around. A moment later Bill pelts down the stairs towards her.
Sherlock: Wait!
WIGGINS: I’m out of ’ere.
WIGGINS: ’e’s lost it.
Sherlock: Where is it?!
WIGGINS : ’e’s totally gone!
(She cringes and backs a step down while Bill heads off down the stairs, and upstairs Sherlock lets out a triumphant cry.
In the flat Sherlock charges from the kitchen into the living room, wielding a long-muzzled pistol in his right hand. Wearing a dark blue dressing gown over his black shirt and trousers, he still has a few days’ of beard growth and his hair is greasy. He looks manic as he runs across the living room.)
Sherlock: “Once more unto the breach, dear friends ...
Sherlock: “... once more!
Sherlock: “Or close the wall up ...
Sherlock: “... with our English dead!
Sherlock: “... set the teeth and stretch the nostril wide.
Sherlock: “Hold hard the breath and bend up every spirit ...
Sherlock: “... to his full height!
Sherlock: “On, on, you noblest English ...
Sherlock: “... whose blood is fet from fathers of war-proof!
Sherlock: “And you, good yeoman, whose limbs were made in England, show us here the mettle of your pasture!
Sherlock: “... which I doubt not, for there is none of you so mean and base ...
Sherlock: “... that hath not noble lustre in your eyes!
Sherlock: “I see you stand like greyhounds in the slips, straining upon the start!
(Stepping into the living room he aims the pistol towards the sofa wall and fires, narrowly missing Mrs Hudson who ducks back and pulls the door closed. Sherlock fires four more times in quick succession, blowing holes in various photos of Smith.
The music ends. Sherlock glares towards the wall.)
Sherlock: “The game’s afoot.”
Sherlock: Oh, hello.
Sherlock: Can I have a cup of tea?
In the present, John is walking along the hall in his therapist’s house. Mrs Hudson closes the front door and follows him.
Watson: Did you call the police?
MRS HUDSON : Of course I didn’t call the police. I’m not a civilian!
FLASHBACK. In the chaos that is 221B’s living room, Sherlock is back in the room. He tears at some of the photographs near the door, then turns towards the windows, putting both hands to his head in frustration. He still has the pistol in one hand.
MRS HUDSON: These pictures ...
MRS HUDSON: ... they’re that man on the telly, aren’t they?
Sherlock: What pictures?
MRS HUDSON : They’re everywhere.
Sherlock: Oh, these pictures!  Oh, you can see them too.  That’s good.
THERAPIST : Culverton Smith.
In the present, John’s therapist has her laptop open on the side table in the back room. Pushing her glasses up her nose, she bends down to the computer and runs her finger over the pad.
THERAPIST: This, I think, is relevant from this morning.
The article underneath is headed ‘Culverton Smith | UK News’ and underneath it reads, ‘Culverton Smith wins year long legal battle with media outlet ‘News24’, gaining an undisclosed sum for defamation of character over the infamous ‘crooked tooth...’ There are several other articles under that one but your transcriber hasn’t got the energy to copy them out. Buy the DVD to see them!)
THERAPIST: He’s publicly accused Mr Smith of being a serial killer.
(She clicks on the top article and it jumps to a report on Speculator Online which shows side-by-side photos of Sherlock, wearing his deerstalker and looking towards the camera, and a smiling Smith. The two photos are divided by a jagged white line that looks like lightning striking. The main headline again reads, in quotes, “He’s a serial killer!” and the straplines read:
Net detective blasts Culverton Smith on Twitter
• Defamatory remark goes viral on social networking site
• Media tycoon yet to comment
Under the photographs the left-hand side of the caption can’t be seen but it ends ‘Culverton Smith blasted by Sherlock Holmes’.)
Watson: Christ! Sherlock on Twitter. He really has lost it.
MRS HUDSON : Don’t you dare make jokes. Don’t you dare. I was terrified!
Back in the flashback at 221B, Sherlock has his back to the kitchen and gestures dramatically either side of his head, the pistol still in one hand.
Sherlock: Cup of tea!
Sherlock: Oh, for goodness’ sakes.
Sherlock: What’s the matter with you?
Sherlock: Are you having an earthquake?!
In the present, Mrs Hudson looks at John pleadingly.
MRS HUDSON: You need to see him, John. You need to help him!
Watson: Nope.
MRS HUDSON : He needs you!
Watson: Somebody else.  Not me. Not now.
MRS HUDSON : Now you just listen to me for once in your stupid life. I know Mary’s dead and I know your heart is broken, but if Sherlock Holmes dies too, who will you have then?
MRS HUDSON: Because I tell you something, John Watson. You will not have me.
(She storms out of the door, passing invisi-Mary, and heads for the front door. John turns to watch her go and Mary tilts her head towards Mrs H, urging him to follow. After a moment he does what he’s told and stomps off into the hall. Mary smiles and watches him go.
Outside, Mrs Hudson has folded her arms on top of the Aston’s roof and has lowered her head onto them and is crying. The police cars and helicopter have gone. John comes out of the house, closes the door and slowly walks towards her while she sobs noisily. He stops behind her for a long moment, blows out a long breath and steps closer.)
Watson: Have you spoken to Mycroft, Molly, uh, anyone?
MRS HUDSON : They don’t matter. You do.  Would you just see him? Please, John. Or just take a look at him as a doctor? I know you’d change your mind if you did.
Watson: Yeah, look, okay, maybe, if I get a chance.
MRS HUDSON : D’you promise?
Watson: I’ll try, if I’m in the area.
MRS HUDSON : Promise me?
Watson: I promise.
MRS HUDSON: Thank you!
MRS HUDSON : Well? On you go.
MRS HUDSON : Examine him!
In flashback in 221B’s kitchen, the teacup and saucer are dropping in ultra-slow motion from Mrs Hudson’s hands. Instinctively – and also in ultra-slow motion – Sherlock reaches forward to drop his pistol onto the kitchen table and then his hand continues its downward motion as he bends his knees and gets his hand under the falling saucer. He catches it and the tea splashes noisily in the cup as its fall is halted. Before he can start to straighten up again, Mrs Hudson reaches across to the table and picks up the gun by its muzzle with her right hand, pulling it towards her and reaching for the other end with her left. Sherlock starts to come up again, some of the tea splashing out of the cup and falling towards the floor. As his knees straighten and his hand shakes, rattling the cup in the saucer, Mrs H turns and points the gun at him, cocking it. He jumps at the sight and stares at it, his hand still trembling.
MRS HUDSON: Right, then, mister. Now I need your handcuffs. I happen to know there’s a pair in the salad drawer.  I’ve borrowed them before.
MRS HUDSON : Oh, get over yourself. You’re not my first smackhead, Sherlock Holmes.
In the present, John opens the front door of the therapist’s house and stands aside while Sherlock, rubbing one of his wrists from where the handcuffs have been removed, stumbles inside.
Sherlock: The woman’s out of control. I asked for a cup of tea!
Watson: How did you get him in the boot?
MRS HUDSON: The boys from the café.
Sherlock: They dropped me. Twice.
MRS HUDSON: And d’you know why they dropped you, dear?
MRS HUDSON: Because they know you.
Sherlock: Who’s this one?  Is this a new person? I’m against new people.
THERAPIST : Excuse me for a moment.
Watson: She’s my therapist.
Sherlock: Awesome!  D’you do block bookings?
Watson: Whose car is that?
MRS HUDSON: That’s my car.
Watson: How can that be your car?!
MRS HUDSON : Oh, for God’s sake! I’m the widow of a drug dealer, I own property in central London ...
MRS HUDSON: ... and for the last bloody time, John, I’m not your housekeeper.
THERAPIST: I’m so sorry. I answered your phone. You were busy. I think you’ll want to take it.
Watson: Uh, yes, hello?
SMITH : Is this Doctor John Watson?
Watson: Yeah. Who’s this?
SMITH : Culverton Smith. You’ve probably heard of me.
Watson: Uh, well, yes.
Sherlock: Get me a fresh glass of water, please. This one’s filthy.
SMITH: I mean, I’m aware of this morning’s developments.
Watson: Yes. I’m sure he was being ... hilarious. Sorry, did you say all still meeting?
SMITH : You, me and Mr Holmes. I’ve sent a car; should be outside. Mr Holmes gave me an address.
Watson: Well, he couldn’t have given you this one. It’s ...
MAN STANDING OUTSIDE: When you’re ready.
Watson: When did Sherlock give you this address?
SMITH: Two weeks ago.
Watson: Two weeks?
SMITH: Yes. Two weeks.
Watson: How did you know where to find me?
MRS HUDSON: Oh, Sherlock told me. He’s not so difficult when you’ve got a gun on him.
Watson: How did you know?
Watson: How? On Monday I decided to get a new therapist. Tuesday afternoon, I chose her.
Watson: Wednesday morning I booked today’s session. Now, today is Friday. So two weeks ago – two weeks before you were abducted at gunpoint and brought here against your will ...
Watson: ... over a week before I even thought of coming here, you knew exactly where you’d need to be picked up for lunch?
Sherlock: Really? I correctly anticipated the responses of people I know well to scenarios I devised? Can’t everyone do that?
MRS HUDSON: How?
Sherlock: Except the boot. The boot was mean.
Watson: Never mind how. He’s dying to tell us that.  I want to know why.
Sherlock: Because Mrs Hudson’s right. I’m burning up.
Sherlock: I’m at the bottom of a pit and I’m still falling and ...  ... I’m never climbing out.
Sherlock: I need you to know, John – I need you to see that up here ...  ... I’ve still got it, so when I tell you that this ...  ... is the most dangerous, the most despicable human being that I have ever encountered; when I tell you that this-this monster must be ended, please remember where you’re standing, because ... you’re standing exactly where I said you would be two weeks ago.
Sherlock: I’m a mess; I’m in hell; but I am not wrong, not about him.
Watson: So what has all this got to do with me?
Sherlock: That creature, that rotting thing, is a living breathing coagulation of human evil, and if the only thing I ever do in this world is drive him out of it, then my life will not have been wasted.
Sherlock: Look at me. Can’t do it, not now. Not alone.
Watson: Yeah, well, they’re real enough, I suppose.
Sherlock: Why would I be faking?
Watson: Because you’re a liar.
Watson: You lie all the time. It’s like your mission.
Sherlock: I have been many things, John, but when have I ever been a malingerer?
Watson: You pretended to be dead for two years!
Sherlock: ... Apart from that?
Watson: Listen, before I do anything, I need to know what state you’re in.
Sherlock: Well, you’re a doctor. Examine me.
Watson: No, I need a second opinion.
Sherlock: Oh, John, calm down. When have you ever managed two opinions? You’d fall over.
Watson: I need the one person who – unlike me – learned to see through your bullshit long ago.
Sherlock: Who’s that, then? I’m sure I would have noticed.
Watson: The last person you’d think of.
Watson: I want you to be examined by Molly Hooper.
Watson: D’you hear me? I said Molly Hooper.
Sherlock: You’re really not gonna like this.
Watson: Like what?
(The doorbell rings. John looks towards the sound, then heaves in a frustrated breath and scowls down at Sherlock.
A few moments later he opens the door to Molly who is standing outside wearing her white lab coat over her clothes. He looks at her in exasperation.)
MOLLY: Um, hel-hello. Is, uh ... I’m sorry, Sh-Sherlock asked me to come.
Watson: What, two weeks ago?
MOLLY: Yeah. About two weeks.
Sherlock: If you’d like to know how I predict the future ...
Watson: I don’t care how.
Sherlock: Okay. Fully equipped ambulance; Molly can examine me on the way. It’ll save time.  Ready to go, Molly?
MOLLY: Oh, well ...
Sherlock: Just tell me when to cough.
Sherlock: Hope you remembered my coat.
MOLLY: Wh...
MOLLY: I... Sorry. I didn’t know that you were gonna be here.
MOLLY : Absolutely no idea what’s going on.
Watson: Sherlock’s using again.
MOLLY: Oh God. But, um, a-are you sure?
Watson: No. It’s Sherlock. Of course I’m not sure.  Just check him out.
MRS HUDSON : Is Molly the right person to be doing medicals? She’s more used to dead people. It’s bound to lower your standards.
Watson: I don’t know. I don’t know anything any more.
Watson: Mrs Hudson. As ever, you are amazing.
MRS HUDSON : No!  You’re going to have to buck up a bit, John.
MRS HUDSON: You know that, don’t you? The game is on!
Watson: I’ll do my best.
MRS HUDSON: Anything you need, any time, just ask. Anything at all!
Watson: Thank you.
Watson: Sometimes, can I borrow your car?
MRS HUDSON: No.
Watson: Okay.
MARY: He knew you’d get a new therapist after I died because you’d need to change everything. That’s just what you’re like.
Watson: Thanks.
MARY: You keep your weekends for Rosie, so you needed to see someone during working hours.
MARY: Because you’re an idiot, you don’t want anyone at the surgery knowing you’re in therapy, so that restricts you to lunchtime sessions with someone reasonably close.
(John looks round at her.
Cut-away of the homepage of Dr. Marcus Chambers, Phd, Consultant Psychiatrist. John’s face comes into focus reflected in the screen as Mary continues speaking. He folds his hands in front of him and rubs his thumb against the other hand while he looks at the screen.)
MARY : You found four men and one woman, and you are done with the world being explained to you by a man.
MARY: Who isn’t?!
MARY: So all he needed to do was find the first available lunchtime appointment with a female therapist within cycling distance of your surgery.
MARY: My God, he knows you.
Watson: No he doesn’t.
MARY : I’m in your head, John. You’re disagreeing with yourself.
DRIVER: You ready, sir?
Watson: Yes, I am.
MARY : He is the cleverest man in the world, but he’s not a monster.
Watson: Yeah, he is.
MARY: Yeah, okay, all right, he is.  Urgh!
MARY : But he’s our monster.
In a TV studio, Smith smiles into the camera.
SMITH : I’m a killer.
(Outside the building, a large billboard is being carried away by a couple of people. The image shows someone – presumably a man but the picture only shows him from the neck down – wearing a suit and tie and holding up a large sharp knife covered with blood. To the right of the person, text reads:
ROWBANK MEDIA
A ROWBANK
ORIGINAL SERIES
ROUGE
SERIES PREMIERE
8TH MARCH
EXCLUSIVE TO
PLAY TV
Along the bottom of the poster it reads:
ON MARCH 8, THE SECRET WILL BE UNLEASHED
As the billboard is carried away, behind it the limousine turns into the forecourt.
Inside the studio Smith, wearing a grey suit and white shirt, has turned his head to the left to smile into another camera.)
SMITH: You know I’m a killer.
(Outside, the limo drives past two people in alien make-up and clothes. They watch the car go past. Each of them has a cigarette in their hands and the woman is also holding her phone.
Inside, Smith straightens up and turns to the camera in front of him.)
SMITH: But did you know I’m a s...
DIRECTOR : Cut there. What was that? Was that a light?
SMITH: Oh, was that me? Er, was I too good, huh?
CORNELIA: He’s here.
Watson: Well? How is he?
Sherlock: Basically fine.
MOLLY: I’ve seen healthier people on the slab.
Sherlock: Yeah but, to be fair, you work with murder victims. They tend to be quite young.
MOLLY: Not funny.
Sherlock: Little bit funny.
MOLLY : If you keep taking what you’re taking at the rate you’re taking it, you’ve got weeks.
Sherlock: Exactly, weeks. Let’s not get ahead of ourselves.
MOLLY : For Christ’s sake, Sherlock, it’s not a game!
Sherlock: I’m worried about you, Molly. You seem very stressed.
MOLLY: I’m stressed; you’re dying.
Sherlock: Yeah, well, I’m ahead, then. Stress can ruin every day of your life.
Sherlock: Dying can only ruin one.
Watson: So this is real? You’ve really lost it. You’re actually out of control.
Sherlock: When have I ever been that?
Watson: Since the day I met you.
Sherlock: Oh, clever boy. I’ve missed you fumbling ’round the place.
Watson: I thought this was some kind of ...
Sherlock: What?
Watson: ... trick.
Sherlock: ’Course it’s not a trick. It’s a plan.
SMITH : Mr Holmes!
Sherlock: Thirty feet and closing: the most significant undetected serial killer in British criminal history.
Sherlock: Help me bring him down.
Watson: What ... what plan?
Sherlock: I’m not telling you.
Watson: Why not?
Sherlock: Because you won’t like it.
SMITH: Mr Holmes!
SMITH: I don’t do handshakes.  It’ll have to be a hug.
Sherlock: I know.
SMITH: Oh, Sherlock.
SMITH: Oh, Sherlock!  What can I say? Thanks to you ...  ... we’re, uh, we’re everywhere!
MALE REPORTER: Mr Holmes, how did Culverton talk you into this?
SMITH: Well, he-he’s a detective.  Maybe I just confessed!
SMITH: Come on.
SMITH : Now, it’s a ... it’s a new kind of breakfast cereal.
MALE REPORTER: Mr Holmes, can you put on the hat?
Watson: Yeah, he doesn’t really wear the hat.
SMITH: Kids will be getting two of their five-a-day before they’ve even left home!
CORNELIA: Sherlock’s been amazing for us.
SMITH : Breakfast has got to be cool.
CORNELIA : We’re beyond viral.
SMITH: And you know what makes it cool when you’re a kid?
Watson: What, sorry? Beyond what?
SMITH: Dangerous.
Not long afterwards, Smith is behind the breakfast bar, smiling to one of the cameras.
DIRECTOR : Set; and action!
SMITH: I’m a killer.
SMITH: You know I’m a killer.
SMITH: But did you know ...
SMITH: ... I’m a cereal killer?!
(To his right, behind the repaired light on its stand, is a large poster advertising the new breakfast cereal. On it, Smith is smiling into the camera and the words “I’m a CEREAL KILLER!” are to the left of his head.
Sherlock chuckles slightly, his gaze intense. Smith takes a large mouthful of cereal and chews on it.)
SMITH : Mm!
DIRECTOR : And cut there. Thank you.
SMITH: We should bag that up, sell it.  Make money for that on eBay.
SMITH : I could make more if you like. Any time you like.
(Her smile becomes rather fixed and she turns and walks away. He straightens up and grimly watches her go.
John has turned to Sherlock.)
Watson: Has it occurred to you – anywhere in your drug-addled brain – that you’ve just been played?
Sherlock: Oh, yes.
Watson: For an ad campaign.
Sherlock: Brilliant, isn’t it?
Watson: Brilliant?
Sherlock: Safest place to hide.
Sherlock: Plain sight.
CORNELIA : Mr Holmes? Culverton wants to know if you’re okay going straight to the hospital.
Watson: Hospital?
CORNELIA: Culverton’s doing a visit. The kids would love to meet you both. I think he sort of promised.
Sherlock: Oh, okay.
CORNELIA: If you’d just like to come this way.
Shortly afterwards, John gets into the right-hand side of the limousine. Sherlock is already sitting on the other side, typing on a phone.
Watson: So ... what are we doing here? What’s the point?
Sherlock: I needed a hug.
SMITH: What do you think, Mr Holmes? ‘Cereal’ killer.
Sherlock: It’s funny ’cause it’s true!
SMITH: See you at the hospital.
Sherlock: Oh, you can have this back now.
SMITH: Have what back?
Sherlock: Thanks for the hug.
Sherlock: Oh, I sent and deleted a text. You might get a reply but I doubt it.
SMITH: It’s password protected.
Sherlock: Please!
SMITH: We’re going to have endless fun, Mr Holmes, aren’t we?
Sherlock: Oh no. No, not endless.
Watson: Need another hit, do you?
Sherlock: I can wait until the hospital.
SAINT CAEDWALLA’S HOSPITAL.  John stands in a corridor with a blue-uniformed female nurse. Near them is the plaque beside which Smith stood when he opened The Culverton Smith Wing. To the right of the plaque is a large photo of Smith just about to cut the ribbon, and to the right of that is another photograph, or possibly a painting, of him smiling. The nurse looks at John.
NURSE CORNISH: You involved much?
Watson: Sorry?
NURSE CORNISH: Um, with Mr Holmes – Sherlock and all his cases?
Watson: Uh, yeah. I’m John Watson.
NURSE CORNISH : Okay.
Watson: Doctor Watson.
NURSE CORNISH: I love his blog, don’t you?
Watson: His blog?
NURSE CORNISH: Oh, don’t you read it?
Watson: You mean my blog.
Sherlock: Say what you like about addiction; the day is full of highlights.
NURSE CORNISH : Oh, Mr Holmes. You feeling better?
Sherlock: Psychedelic!
NURSE CORNISH: I was just saying I love your blog.
Sherlock: Great. I ...
Watson: It’s my blog.
Sherlock: It is. He writes the blog.
NURSE CORNISH : It’s yours?
Watson: Yes.
NURSE CORNISH: You write Sherlock’s blog?
Watson: Yes.
NURSE CORNISH: It’s ... gone downhill a little bit, hasn’t it?
NURSE CORNISH : Oh, it’s this way, then.
NURSE: Oh, my God; I love your blog!
Sherlock: You’re welcome!
SMITH : Right, here he comes, the internet ’tec!
SMITH: You all know Sherlock Holmes!
Sherlock: Hello!
SMITH: Oh, and Doctor Watson, of course.
SMITH: Mr Holmes. I was wondering – well ...  ... we all were, weren’t we? – maybe you could tell us about some of your cases.
Sherlock: No.
Watson: Yes.
Sherlock: Yes! Absolutely, yes.
Sherlock: The main feature of interest in the field of criminal investigation is not the sensational aspects of the crime itself, but rather the iron chain of reasoning, from cause to effect, that reveals – step by step – the solution. That’s the only truly remarkable aspect of the entire affair. Now, I will share with you the facts and evidence as they were available to me, and in this very room you will all attempt to solve the case of Blessington the Poisoner.
Watson: I think you slightly gave away the ending.
Sherlock: There were five main suspects ...
Watson: One of them called Blessington.
Sherlock: ... but it’s more about how he did it.
Watson: Poison?
Sherlock: Okay.
Sherlock: Drearcliff House. Remember that one, John?
Sherlock: One murder, ten suspects.
Watson: Ten, yeah.
Sherlock: All of them guilty.
Watson: Sherlock ...
Sherlock: Uh, wh-wh-wh-what did you call that one, John? Um, something to do with murder at the zoo.
Watson: Yeah, I called it Murder at the Zoo.
Sherlock: Or-or was it The Case of the Killer Orang-Utan?
MARY: He should be wearing the hat. The kids’d love the hat.
Sherlock: So, any more questions?
SEVERAL OF THE KIDS : No.
ONE OF THE KIDS: I don’t think so.
Sherlock: No?
SMITH: Mr Holmes?
Sherlock: Good, then I’ll ...
SMITH: How do you catch a serial killer?
Sherlock: Same way you catch any other killer.
SMITH: No, but m-most killers kill someone they know.
SMITH: You’re looking for a murderer in a tiny social grouping.
NURSE CORNISH: Um, Mr Smith. Um, I’m-I’m just, er, wondering. Maybe this isn’t a suitable subject for the children.
SMITH : Nurse Cornish. How long have you been with us now?
NURSE CORNISH: Seven years.
SMITH: Seven years.
SMITH: Okay.
SMITH: Serial killers choose their victims at random. Surely that must make it more difficult?
Sherlock: Some of them advertise.
SMITH: Do they really?
Sherlock: Serial killing is an expression of power, ego, a signature in human destruction.
Sherlock: Ultimately, for full satisfaction, it requires ...  ... plain sight. Additionally, serial killers are easily profiled. They tend to be social outcasts, educationally sub-normal.
SMITH: No-no-no-no-no-no. You’re just talking about the ones you know, the ones you’ve caught.
SMITH: But hello, dummy, you only catch the dumb ones. Now, imagine if the Queen wanted to kill some people. What would happen then?
SMITH: All that power, all that money.  Sweet little government dancing attendance.
SMITH: A whole country just to keep her warm and ...
SMITH: ... and fat.
SMITH: Hm.
SMITH: We all love the Queen, don’t we? And I bet she’d love you lot!
Watson: Uh, it-it’s all right, everyone. I can personally assure you that Sherlock Holmes is not about to arrest the Queen.
SMITH: Well, of course not! Not Her Majesty!
SMITH: Money, power, fame.
SMITH: Some things make you untouchable.
SMITH : God save the Queen!  She could open a slaughterhouse and we’d all probably pay the entrance fee!
Watson: No-one’s untouchable.
SMITH: No-one?
SMITH: Look at you all! So gloomy! Can’t you take a joke?
SMITH: The Queen! If the Queen was a serial killer, I’d be the first person she’d tell!  We have that kind of friendship!
SMITH: A big round of applause for Sherlock Holmes and Doctor Watson!
SMITH: Come on! Wonderful!
SMITH: Thank you so much for coming. Thank you.
Not long afterwards, Smith leads Sherlock and John along a bright white-painted corridor.
Sherlock: Where are we going now?
SMITH: I want to show you my favourite room.
Sherlock: No, let’s go in here.
Sherlock: So you’ve had another one of your little meetings.
SMITH: Oh, it’s just a monthly top-up. Confession is good for the soul ... providing you can delete it.
Watson: What’s TD12?
Sherlock: It’s a memory inhibitor.
SMITH: Bliss.
Watson: Bliss?
SMITH: Opt-in ignorance. Makes the world go round.
Sherlock: Anyone ever ‘opt’ to remember?
SMITH: Some people take the drip out, yeah. Some people have the same ... urges. Huh ...  ... come on. Wasting time.
Sherlock: Indeed.  You have – I estimate – twenty minutes left.
SMITH: Sorry?
Sherlock: I sent a text from your phone, remember? It was read almost immediately. Factoring in a degree of shock, an emotional decision and a journey time based on the associated address, I’d say that your life as you know it has twenty minutes left to run.
Sherlock: Well, no, seventeen and a half, to be precise but I rounded up for dramatic effect, so please do show us your favourite room.  It’ll give you a chance to say ... goodbye.
SMITH: Come along.
MARY’s VOICE : The game is on.
MARY: Do you still miss me?
Shortly afterwards, the three men are in an elevator. John has his head lowered and is pinching the bridge of his nose. Sherlock looks uncomfortable and twitchy.
SMITH: Speaking of serial killers, you know who’s my favourite?
Sherlock: Other than yourself?
SMITH: H. H. Holmes.
SMITH: Relative of yours?
Sherlock: Not as far as I know.
SMITH: You should check. What an idiot.
SMITH: Everyone out.
SAHEED: Mr Smith, we’re actually in the middle of something.
SMITH : Saheed, isn’t it?
SAHEED: Saheed, yes.
SMITH: How long have you been working here now?
SAHEED: Four years.
SMITH : Four years. Well, that’s a long time, isn’t it?
SMITH : Four years.
SAHEED: Okay, everyone.
SAHEED: Five minutes?
SMITH: Come back in ten.
SMITH: Saheed.
SMITH: This time, knock.
Watson: How can you do that? I mean, how-how are you even allowed in here?
SMITH: Oh, I-I can go anywhere I like.
SMITH : Anywhere at all.
Watson: They gave you keys?
SMITH: They presented ’em to me. There was a ceremony. You can watch that on YouTube.
SMITH: Home Secretary was there.
Sherlock: So, your favourite room: the mortuary.
SMITH: What d’you think?
Sherlock: Tough crowd.
SMITH: Oh, I don’t know.
SMITH: No, I’ve always found ’em quite pliable.
Watson: Don’t do that.
SMITH : She’s fine. She’s dead.
SMITH: H. H. Holmes loved the dead. He mass-produced ’em.
Sherlock: Serial killer, active during the Chicago Fair.
SMITH : D’you know what he did? He built a hotel, a special hotel, just to kill people. You know, with a hanging room, gas chamber, specially adapted furnace. You know, like Sweeney Todd ...
SMITH: ... without the pies!
SMITH: Stupid. So stupid.
Watson: Why stupid?
SMITH: Well, all that effort. You don’t build a beach if you want to hide a pebble; you just find a beach!
SMITH: And if you wanna hide a murder, or wanna hide lots and lots of murders, just find a ...
SMITH: ... hospital.
Watson: Can we be clear? Are you confessing?
SMITH: To what?
Watson: The way you’re talking ...
SMITH : Oh, sorry.  Yes.  You mean, am I a serial killer, or am I just trying to mess with your funny little head? Well, it’s true.
SMITH: I do like to mess with people ...
SMITH: ... and yes, I am a bit creepy, but that’s just my U.S.P.
SMITH: I use it to sell breakfast cereal. But am I what he says I am?  Is that what you’re asking?
Watson: Yes.
SMITH: Hm. Well, let me ask you this.  Are you really a doctor?
Watson: Yeah, of course I am.
SMITH: Well, no, a medical doctor, you know. Not just feet, or media studies or something.
Watson: I’m a doctor.
SMITH: Are you serious? No, really, are you?
SMITH: Are you ... are you actually serious?
SMITH: I’ve played along with this joke. It’s not funny any more. No ... look at him.
SMITH: Go ahead, look at him, Doctor Watson! Hm? Oh, no, I’ll lay it out for you.
SMITH : There are two possible explanations for what’s going on ’ere.  Either I’m a serial killer ...  ... or Sherlock Holmes is off his tits on drugs, hm? Delusional paranoia about a-a public personality? That’s not so special. It’s not even new!
SMITH : I think you need to, er, tell your faithful little friend how you’re wasting his time because you’re too high to know what’s real any more.
Sherlock: I apologise.
Sherlock: I-I-I’ve miscalculated.
Sherlock: I forgot to factor in the traffic!
Sherlock: Nineteen and a half minutes.
Sherlock: Ah, the footsteps you’re about to hear will be very familiar to you, not least because there’ll be three impacts rather than two. The third, of course, will be the end of a walking cane.
Sherlock: Your daughter Faith’s walking cane.
SMITH: And why would she be here?
Sherlock: You invited her.  You sent her a text – or-or-or technically I sent her a text but she’s not to know.
Sherlock: Ah, let’s see if I can recall.
Sherlock: “Faith... I can stand it no longer, I’ve confessed... to my crimes. Please forgive me!”
SMITH: Why would that have any effect?  You don’t know her.
Sherlock: Oh, but I do.  I spent a whole evening with her.  We had chips.
Sherlock: I think she liked me.
SMITH: You don’t know Faith. You simply do not.
Sherlock: I know you care about her deeply. I know you invited her to one of your special board meetings.  You care what she thinks.
Sherlock: You maintain an impressive façade.
Sherlock: I think it’s about to break.
LESTRADE: Did you know?
Sherlock: She came to Baker Street.
SMITH: No she didn’t.
Watson: Of course I didn’t.
Sherlock: She came to see me because she was scared of her daddy.
SMITH: Never happened. Is this another one of your drug-fuelled fantasies?
(He looks across to John and pulls a face while noisily sucking in a fake-nervous breath.
In the cut-away scene it’s now clear that Greg and John are in a police interview room. There’s a large mirror on the wall behind where Greg is sitting at a small table, and in the reflection we can see John sitting opposite him. A male police officer is standing beside the closed door behind John.)
LESTRADE: You didn’t see him take the scalpel?
Watson: Nobody saw him.
LESTRADE: So you didn’t know what was about to happen.
Watson: Of course I didn’t know.
Sherlock: Well, let’s see, shall we?
Sherlock: Faith, stop loitering at the door and come in! This is your father’s favourite room.
Sherlock: Come and meet his best friends.
FAITH : Dad?
FAITH: What’s happening? What was that text?
FAITH: Are you having one of your jokes?
FAITH: Who are you?
(It’s not Faith. At least, it’s not the Faith who spent the evening with Sherlock. She looks very similar in height and size; she has the same style and length of hair, although it’s a very slightly different shade of mid-blonde, and she’s wearing similar glasses.
John frowns at her question. Sherlock lowers his chin, flashing back to a close-up rear view of the hair of the woman who stood at his window three weeks ago, before focusing in on the hairline and then the mouth of the woman in front of him. He lowers his gaze to her hand leaning on her walking cane and the gold patterning on the stick which seems very similar, maybe even identical, to those on the stick which the Faith he met then holds in flashback as she sits on the client chair in 221B. In the mortuary, Sherlock raises his gaze to this Faith’s face, then flashes back to the face of the woman he met before. He screws his eyes shut and sees mortuary-room Faith sitting on the client chair at 221B. The camera rolls round behind her and slows down as it slowly pans past her, and various details appear around her:
Hair: Mid-Blonde
Height: 5’5”
Dress Size: 10
Skin: Fair
Posture: Favours Right
As the camera continues around behind her, she transforms into previous-Faith, her hair a slightly darker mid-blonde but all the details around her remain the same. The camera speeds up and rolls round to face her, then she transforms back into mortuary-room Faith sitting on the chair again.
In the mortuary, Sherlock frowns at her.)
Sherlock: Who the hell are you?
SMITH : Sherlock Holmes! Surely you recognise him.
FAITH: Oh my God!
SMITH: Mm!
FAITH: Sherlock Holmes!  I love your blog.
Sherlock: You’re not her. You’re not the woman who came to Baker Street.
FAITH: Um, well, no. Never been there.
LESTRADE: Well, there must have been some build-up. He didn’t just suddenly do it.
Watson: Look, I didn’t know he had the bloody scalpel.
Sherlock: Sorry, I’m not sure I completely understand.
FAITH: U-understand what?
SMITH : Well, I thought you two were-were old friends!
FAITH : No! We’ve never met.
SMITH : Oh, dear! Oh!
FAITH : Have we?
Watson: Sherlock?
Sherlock: So who came to my flat?
FAITH: Well, it wasn’t me.
SMITH: Oh, no!
Sherlock: You ... look ... different.
FAITH: I wasn’t there.
SHERLOCK’s VOICE : Who came to my flat?
FAITH : I’m sorry, Mr Holmes, but ...
FAITH : ... I don’t think I’ve ever been anywhere near your flat.
SMITH: Oh, dear!
SMITH : Oh, no!
WIGGINS: Who you talkin’ to?
(In the mortuary, Sherlock’s eyes start to widen.
In flashback, Mrs Hudson looks at him in the hall of 221.)
MRS HUDSON: What friend?
PAST-FAITH: Anyone.
(In the present, Sherlock raises both hands and covers his nose and mouth, shocked and breathing out a horrified breath as he slowly backs away. Smith continues to cackle delightedly.
SMITH: Oh no!
SHERLOCK’s VOICE : Faith?
Sherlock: God.
Watson: Sherlock.
Watson: Sherlock? Are you all right? Sherlock, are you okay?
Sherlock: Watch him. He’s got a knife.
SMITH : I’ve got a what?!
Sherlock: You’ve got a scalpel! You picked it up from that table.
Sherlock: I saw you take it.
SMITH: I certainly did not!
Sherlock: Look behind his back!
SMITH : What?
Sherlock: I saw you take it! I saw you!
SMITH : Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Watson: Whoa-whoa-whoa. Whoa, Sherlock, d’you wanna put that down?
FAITH: Oh my God.
Sherlock: Stop laughing at me.
SMITH : I’m not laughing!
Watson: He’s not laughing, Sherlock.
Sherlock: STOP LAUGHING AT ME!
Watson: Sherlock!
Before Sherlock reaches Smith, without segue we jump to the police interview room and Greg reaches across to switch off the recording device, then leans back in his chair with a tired sigh and tilts his head back.
LESTRADE: Ohh, Christ!
LESTRADE: I keep wondering if we should have seen it coming.
Watson: Not long ago, he shot Charles Magnussen in the face. We did see it coming.
Watson: We always saw it coming. But it was fun.
LESTRADE: Come in.
POLICE OFFICER: Sir. You probably want to see this.
FEMALE NEWSREADER : Harold Chorley reporting earlier today. Mr Smith stated he had no interest in bringing charges.
SMITH: I’m a fan of Sherlock Holmes. I’m a big fan.
SMITH : I don’t really know what happened today. To be honest, I don’t think I’d be standing here now if it wasn’t for Doctor Watson.
And we’re back in the mortuary at the end of the previous scene.
Sherlock: STOP LAUGHING AT ME!
Watson: Sherlock!
Watson: Stop it!
Watson: Stop It Now!
FEMALE REPORTER : Is it true he’s being treated in your hospital?
SMITH: It’s not actually my hospital ... Well, it is a little bit my hospital ...  ... Uh, but I can promise you this: he’s going to get the best of care. I might even move him to my favourite room.
NEWSREADER : Culverton Smith earlier today.
NEWSREADER : In Nottingham ...
LESTRADE : He’s right, you know. You probably saved his life.
Back in the mortuary, John glares furiously into Sherlock’s face.
Watson: What are you doing?!
Watson: Wake up!
In the interview room.
Watson: I really hit him, Greg.
Watson: Hit him hard.
In the mortuary, John punches Sherlock right-handed with all his strength. Crying out, Sherlock falls to the floor. Gasping, he props himself up on his right arm, his nose bleeding.
Watson: Is this ...  ... a game?
Watson: A bloody game?
SMITH : Please. Please, please, please, no violence.
SMITH: Thank you, Doctor Watson.
SMITH: But I don’t think he’s a danger any more.
SMITH: Leave him be.
Sherlock: No, it’s-it’s okay. Let him do what he wants.  He’s entitled.  I killed his wife.
Watson: Yes, you did.
HOSPITAL ROOM. A close-up of a drip attached to a drug stand then pans down to show the monitor beside it. A steady beeping can be heard, presumably indicating a heartbeat. Sherlock’s face is reflected in the screen and the camera moves across to show him lying in bed, his eyes closed. The top of the bed is raised to a angle of 45 degrees. We can only see his face from his right side, so we can’t see the extent of his injuries on the other side. John stands at the foot of the bed, his back to the camera. It looks as if he’s bracing his hands on the bed frame in front of him and now he leans forward a little, hunching his shoulders.
Outside the room, Nurse Cornish approaches and nods and smiles to the uniformed male police officer who is clearly guarding the room. He is not wearing a jacket and his cap is on a chair at the other side of the door. She opens the door and walks in, smiling when she sees John.
NURSE CORNISH: Oh, hi.
NURSE CORNISH : Just in to say hello?
Watson: No. I’m just in to say goodbye.
NURSE CORNISH: I’m sure he’ll pull through.
NURSE CORNISH: And yeah, he’s made a terrible mess of himself, but he’s awfully strong, so must look on the bright side.
Watson: Hm.
(We see all of Sherlock’s face. The cut on his eyebrow has been stitched, and his left eye is bruised and swollen.
After a moment John looks down and – below the screen – brings his hands together and then separates them again.)
Watson: Well ...
Watson: Parting gift.
NURSE CORNISH: Oh, that’s nice. A walking stick.
Watson: Yeah, it was mine from ... a long time ago.
NURSE CORNISH: Hello? Ward seventy-three.
NURSE CORNISH: Oh, uh, Doctor Watson?
Watson: Hm?
NURSE CORNISH: It’s for you.
Watson: Hello, Mycroft.
MYCROFT : There’s a car downstairs.
Not long afterwards, a black car drives under Admiralty Arch and heads into The Mall. John is sitting in the back seat.
MARY : You know, he should definitely have worn the hat.
Watson: Still thinking about Sherlock?
MARY: No! You are.
Watson: Got your disapproving face on.
MARY: Well, seeing as I’m inside your head, I think we can call that self-loathing.
In Sherlock’s hospital room, Nurse Cornish finishes whatever she’s doing with the equipment beside the bed and walks to the door. We see the entire room for the first time. The wall behind the top of the bed is wood panelling. The side walls have white wallpaper covered with large white circles with pale blue circles around them. The wall opposite the bed has mostly the same wallpaper except opposite the bed itself where there is a large wood panel – about fifteen feet wide – attached a couple of inches in front of the wall. It curves over into the room at the top. Above most of the room, wood panelling is suspended just below the ceiling and lights above it shine around the edges, while similar lights shine around the edges of the panel opposite the bed, giving the room a gentle light. There are also small halogen lights set into the underside of the ceiling, and a light near the bed shines on the drip stand. A lamp covered with a lampshade stands on top of a narrow cupboard in the far corner of the room. In between the two windows at that end of the room is a small wooden table and a chair.
The nurse flicks a switch near the door and the lights above the ceiling panel go out, dimming the overall lighting even more. She goes out the door and closes it behind her. Sherlock’s closed eyes flicker a little.
The wooden panel opposite the bed begins to swing open from the left-hand side as viewed from the bed. After a moment Culverton Smith steps through the gap and into the room. He turns and pushes the panel closed again with a hand covered with a medical glove. He turns and walks over to the chair near the table, picking it up and carrying it nearer to the bed. Putting it down, he sits in it and folds his gloved hands in front of him, looking towards the bed and gently tapping the fingers of one hand against the tips of the other.
BAKER STREET. The black car pulls up at the kerb near 221B and John gets out and walks towards the front door. Inside, he climbs the stairs. As he approaches the first floor landing, two sets of legs can be seen, one walking across the landing into the living room and another set crossing the room just inside. Mycroft’s voice can be heard.
MYCROFT: Where is she?
MYCROFT: Where’s Mrs Hudson?
AGENT: She’ll be up in a moment.
Watson: Uh, uh, what are you doing?
MYCROFT: Have you noticed the kitchen?  It’s practically a meth lab. I’m trying to establish exactly what drove Sherlock off the rails.
MYCROFT: Any ideas?
Watson: Are these spooks?
Watson: Uh, are you using spooks now to look after your family?
Watson: Hang on – are they tidying?
MYCROFT: Sherlock is a security concern. The fact that I’m his brother changes nothing.
Watson: Yeah, you said that before.
MARY: Ask him.
MYCROFT : Why fixate on Culverton Smith? He’s had his obsessions before, of course, but this goes a bit further than setting a mantrap for Father Christmas.
MARY : Do it.  Ask him.
MYCROFT: Spending all night talking to a woman who wasn’t even there.
MARY: Oh, shut up, you.
Watson: Mycroft, last time when we were on the phone ...
MYCROFT: No-no-no-no, stop.  I detest conversation in the past tense.
Watson: You said the fact that you were his brother made no difference.
MYCROFT: It doesn’t.
Watson: You said it didn’t the last time and it wouldn’t with Sherlock, so who was it the last time? Who were you talking about?
MARY: Attaboy.
MYCROFT: Nobody. I ... misspoke.
MARY : He’s lying.
Watson: You’re lying.
MYCROFT: I assure you I’m not.
MARY: He really is lying.
Watson: Sherlock’s not your only brother. There’s another one, isn’t there?
MYCROFT : No.
Watson: Jesus! A secret brother! What, is he locked up in a tower or something?
MRS HUDSON: Mycroft Holmes!
MRS HUDSON: What are all these dreadful people doing in my house?
MYCROFT : Mrs Hudson, I apologise for the interruption. As you know, my brother has embarked on a programme of self-destruction remarkable even by his standards, and I am endeavouring to find out what triggered it.
MRS HUDSON: And that’s what you’re all looking for?
MYCROFT: Quite so.
MRS HUDSON: What’s on his mind?
MYCROFT: So to speak.
MRS HUDSON: And you’ve had all this time?
MYCROFT: Time being something of which we don’t have an infinite supply ...  ... so if we could be about our business?
MRS HUDSON: You are ...
MRS HUDSON: ... you’re-you’re so funny, you are!
MYCROFT: Mrs Hudson?
MRS HUDSON : He thinks you’re clever. Poor old Sherlock; always going on about you.
MRS HUDSON: I mean, he knows you’re an idiot, but that’s okay ’cause you’re a lovely doctor ...
MRS HUDSON: ... but he has no idea what an idiot you are!
MYCROFT : Is this merely stream-of-consciousness abuse, or are you attempting to make a point?
MRS HUDSON : You want to know what’s bothering Sherlock? Easiest thing in the world; anyone can do it.
MYCROFT: I know his thought processes better than any other human being, so please try to understand ...
MRS HUDSON : He’s not about thinking, not Sherlock.
MYCROFT: Of course he is.
MRS HUDSON: No, no. He’s more ... emotional, isn’t he?
MRS HUDSON: Unsolved case: shoot the wall.
MRS HUDSON: Pew! Pew!
MRS HUDSON: Unmade breakfast: karate the fridge!
MRS HUDSON: Unanswered question ...
MRS HUDSON: Well, what does he do with anything he can’t answer, John, every time?
Watson: He stabs it.
MRS HUDSON: Anything he can’t find the answer for: ...  ... bang! ...
John pulls the knife from the padded envelope and turns around and reaches in for the contents while Mrs Hudson continues.)
MRS HUDSON: ... it’s up there. I keep telling him: if he was any good as a detective, I wouldn’t need a new mantel.
The DVD has been loaded in the television in the corner of the room near the kitchen. All the spooks have stopped their work and stand watching the screen. Mycroft stands in the middle of the room with his hand raised to the side of his face, looking intrigued as he watches the TV. Mrs Hudson is sitting on the edge of John’s chair and John himself stands between the two of them, a look of devastation on his face as Mary’s voice comes from the speakers.
MARY’s VOICE : If you’re watching this, I’m ... probably dead.
Watson: Okay, no. S-stop that now, please.
MRS HUDSON: Everybody out, now. All of you.
MRS HUDSON : This is my house ...  ... this is my friend ...  ... and that’s his departed wife. Anyone who stays here a minute longer is admitting to me personally they do not have a single spark of human decency.
MRS HUDSON : Get out of my house, you reptile.
HOSPITAL ROOM. The heart monitor continues to beep quietly. Smith, still sitting on the chair and watching Sherlock, huffs out a noisy breath, probably deliberately. Sherlock opens his eyes and blinks a couple of times. His left eye is almost completely bloodshot. Smith breathes out noisily again.
SMITH : You’ve been ages waking up. I watched you. It’s quite lovely in its way.
SMITH : Take it easy. It’s okay. Don’t want to rush this. You’re Sherlock Holmes.
MARY : I’m giving you a case, Sherlock.
MARY : Might be the hardest case of your career.
MARY: When I’m ... gone – if I’m gone – I need you to do something for me. Save John Watson.
MARY: Save him, Sherlock.
MRS HUDSON: John, if you want to watch this later ...
MARY : Save him.
MARY: Don’t think anyone else is going to save him, because there isn’t anyone. It’s up to you. Save him. But I do think you’re gonna need a little bit of help with that, because you’re not exactly good with people, so here’s a few things you need to know about the man we both love – and more importantly what you’re going to need to do to save him.
HOSPITAL ROOM.
Sherlock: How did you get in?
SMITH: Policeman outside, you mean? Come on. Can’t you guess?
Sherlock: Secret door.
SMITH : I built this whole wing. Kept firing the architect and builders so no-one knew quite h-how it all fitted together. I can slip in and out anywhere I like, you know ... when I get the urge.
Sherlock: H. H. Holmes.
SMITH: Murder castle, but done right. I have a question for you. Why are you here? It’s like you walked into my den and laid down in front of me.
SMITH: Why?
Sherlock: You know why I’m here.
SMITH: I’d like to hear you say it.  Say it for me, please.
Sherlock: I want you to kill me.
BAKER STREET. The door to 221B opens and John hurries out into the street, looking down at his phone. He hasn’t stopped to put on his jacket. As he walks to the kerb and looks down the road, probably looking for a taxi, Mrs Hudson hurries onto the doorstep.
MRS HUDSON: John!
MRS HUDSON: My car.
HOSPITAL ROOM. Smith has moved to the side of the bed and is resting his gloved left hand on the bed very close to the end of Sherlock’s left hand as it rests on the blanket.
Sherlock: If you increase the dosage four or five times ...
Sherlock: ... toxic shock should shut me down within about an hour.
SMITH : Then I restore the settings. Everyone assumes it was a fault, or you just gave up the ghost.
Sherlock: Yes.
SMITH: You’re rather good at this.
SMITH: Before we start ...  ... tell me how you feel.
Sherlock: I feel scared.
SMITH: Be more specific.  You only get to do this the once.
Sherlock: I’m ... scared of dying.
SMITH: You wanted this, though.
Sherlock: I have ... reasons.
SMITH: But you don’t actually want to die.
Sherlock: No.
SMITH: Good.  Say that for me. Say it.
Sherlock: I don’t want to die.
SMITH : And again.
Sherlock: I don’t want to die.
SMITH : Once more for luck.
Sherlock: I don’t want to die. I don’t ...
Sherlock: ... don’t want to die.
SMITH : Lovely.
SMITH: Here it comes.
Out on the streets, the Aston Martin is speeding along Victoria Embankment beside the river.
Watson: Please, I don’t think he’s safe.
LESTRADE’s VOICE : No, he’s fine. I’ve got a man on the door. What-what do you think’s happened?
Watson: I don’t know! Something! Mary left a message.
LESTRADE : What message?
MARY : John Watson never accepts help, not from anyone. Not ever.
MARY : But here’s the thing: he never refuses it. So, here’s what you are going to do.
In the hospital room, a drop of liquid drips down from the bag on the stand. Smith is slowly walking around the foot of the bed.
SMITH: So tell me: why are we doing this? To what do I owe the pleasure?
Sherlock: I wanted to hear your confession; needed to know I was right.
SMITH: But why do you need to die?
Sherlock: The mortuary; your favourite room.
Sherlock: You talk to the dead. You make your confession to them.
(Smith sniffs, straightens up, rubs his nose and turns away towards the chair, shaking his head.
Outside the room, the police officer is talking into his phone.)
POLICE OFFICER: Sorry, sir, what?
POLICE OFFICER: What do you mean?
POLICE OFFICER : I think the door’s jammed.
NURSE CORNISH: Oh, has that door locked itself again? Yeah, it’s always doing that.
MARY : You can’t save John because he won’t let you. He won’t allow himself to be saved. The only way to save John ... is to make him save you.
Sherlock: Why do you do it?
SMITH : Why do I kill?  It’s-It’s not about hatred or-or revenge. I’m not a dark person. It’s ... Killing human beings ...
SMITH: ... it just makes me ...  ... incredibly happy.
SMITH : You know i-i-in films when-when you see dead people pretending to be dead and it’s just living people lying down?  That’s not what dead people look like.  Dead people look like things. I like to make people into things. Then you can own them.
SMITH: You know what? I’m getting a little impatient.
SMITH : Take a big breath if you want.
MARY : Go to Hell, Sherlock.
MARY : Go right into Hell, and make it look like you mean it.
SMITH : Murder is a very difficult addiction to manage. People don’t realise how much work goes into it. You have to be careful.
SMITH: ... but if-if you’re rich or famous and loved, it’s amazing what people are prepared to ignore.
SMITH: There’s always someone desperate, about to go missing ...
SMITH: ... and no-one wants to suspect murder if it’s easier to suspect something else!
SMITH: I just have to ration myself; choose the right heart to stop.
MARY : Go and pick a fight with a bad guy. Put yourself in harm’s way.
SMITH : Please, maintain eye contact. Maintain eye contact.
SMITH : Maintain eye contact. Please. I like to watch it ... happen.
MARY : If he thinks you need him, I swear ...
(John comes through the door at the end of the hospital corridor and hurries along it. He reaches the door to Sherlock’s room. The police officer isn’t there but his cap still lies on the chair beside the door. John lowers the door handle and pushes forward but the door doesn’t open. He rattles the handle a couple of times, then urgently looks along the corridor.
Inside, Smith leans down closer to Sherlock, his teeth bared and his gaze ecstatic as he speaks.)
SMITH : And off we ... pop.
MARY : ... he will be there.
POLICE OFFICER: Mr Holmes! You okay?
Watson: What were you doing to him?
Watson: What were you doing?!
SMITH: He’s in distress! I-I’m helping him!
Watson: Restrain him, now. Do it.
SMITH: I was trying to help him!
Watson: Sherlock, what was he doing to you?
Sherlock: Suffocating me, overdosing me.
Watson: On what?
Sherlock: Saline.
Watson: Saline?
Sherlock: Yeah, saline.
Watson: What d’you mean, saline?
Sherlock: Well obviously I got Nurse Cornish to switch the bags. She’s a big fan, you know? Loves my blog.
Watson: You’re okay?
Sherlock: No-no, of course I’m not okay. Malnourished, double kidney failure, and frankly I’ve been off my tits for weeks.  What kind of a doctor are you?
Sherlock: I got my confession, though, didn’t I?
SMITH: Huh! I don’t recall making any confession.
Watson: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
SMITH : What would I be confessing to?
Sherlock: You can listen to it later.
SMITH: But there is no confession to listen to!
SMITH: Oh, Mr Holmes. I-I don’t know if this is relevant, but we found three potential recording devices in the pockets of your coat.
SMITH: Um, all your possessions were searched.  Sorry.
Sherlock: Must be something comforting about the number three. People always give up after three.
Watson: What? What is it? What?
Watson: You cock.
Sherlock: Yeah.
Watson: Utter, utter cock.
Sherlock: Heard you the first time.
Watson: So how-how does it open?
Sherlock: Screw the top.
Watson: Two weeks ago?
Sherlock: Three.
Watson: I’m that predictable?
Sherlock: No.
Sherlock: I’m just a cock.
POLICE INTERVIEW ROOM. Greg reaches across to the side of the table and switches off the recorder. Smith sits on the other side of the table beside a woman who is presumably his lawyer. Greg rests his elbow on the table and lowers his head into his hand, then rubs his eyes with his fingers and thumb.
SMITH : It’s funny, I ... I never realised confessing would be so enjoyable.
SMITH: I sh-should have done it sooner.
LESTRADE: We’ll carry on tomorrow.
SMITH: Well, w-w-we could carry on now. I’m-I’m not tired. There’s loads more.
LESTRADE : Tomorrow.
SMITH: You know, I am gonna be so famous now.
LESTRADE : You’re already famous.
SMITH: Yeah, but with this ...
SMITH: ... I can break America.
Sherlock: I had, of course, several other backup plans. Trouble is, I couldn’t remember what they were.
Sherlock: And, of course, I hadn’t really anticipated that I’d hallucinated meeting his daughter.
MARY : Basically he trashed himself on drugs so that you’d help him ...
MARY: ... so that you’d have something to do, something doctory. You get that now, though?
Sherlock: Still a bit troubled by the daughter. Did seem very real, and she gave me information I couldn’t have acquired elsewhere.
Watson: But she wasn’t ever here?
Sherlock: Interesting, isn’t it? I have theorised before that if one could attenuate to every available data stream in the world simultaneously, it would be possible to anticipate and deduce almost anything.
Watson: Hm. So you dreamed up a magic woman who told you things you didn’t know.
MARY: Well, it sounds about right to me.  Possibly I’m biased.
Sherlock: Perhaps the drugs opened certain doors in my mind.  I’m intrigued.
Watson: Oh, I know you are ...
Watson: ... which is why we’re all taking it in turns to keep you off the sweeties.
Sherlock: I thought we were just hanging out.
Watson: Molly’ll be here in twenty minutes.
Sherlock: Oh, I do think I can last twenty minutes without supervision.
Watson: Well, if you’re sure.
MARY : Christ, John, stay. Talk!
Watson: Uh, sorry, it’s just, um, you know, Rosie.
Sherlock: Yes, of course, Rosie.
MARY: Go and solve a crime together. Make him wear the hat!
Watson: You’ll be okay for twenty minutes?
Sherlock: Yes. Yes! Sorry, I-I wasn’t thinking of Rosie.
Watson: No problem.
Sherlock: I should, uh, come and see her soon.
Watson: Yes.
MARY: Actually, he should wear the hat as a special tribute to me. I’m dead. I would really appreciate it.
Sherlock: Oh, by the way, the recordings will probably be inadmissible.
Watson: Sorry, what?
Sherlock: Well, technically, it’s entrapment so it might get thrown out as evidence. Not that that matters; apparently he can’t stop confessing.
Watson: That’s good.
Sherlock: Yeah.
Sherlock: Are you okay?
Watson: Uh, what, am I ... no, no, I’m not okay. I’m never gonna be okay.
Watson: ... but we’ll just have to accept that. It is what it is; and what it is is ... shit.
MARY: John, do better.
Watson: Hm.
Watson: You didn’t kill Mary.
Watson: Mary died saving your life. It was her choice. No-one made her do it. No-one could ever make her do anything ...
Watson: ... but the point is: you did not kill her.
Sherlock: In saving my life, she conferred a value on it.  It is a currency I do not know how to spend.
Watson: It is what it is.
Watson: Uh, I’m tomorrow, six ’til ten. I’ll see you then.
Sherlock: Looking forward to it.
Watson: Yeah.
MARY: That noise: that’s a text alert noise.
Watson: What was that?
Sherlock: Mm?  What was what?
MARY: That’s the text alert of Irene Adler. She’s the scary mad one, right?
Watson: That noise.
Sherlock: What noise?
MARY: But she’s dead.  Ooh, I bet she isn’t dead!
MARY: I bet he saved her!  Oh my God!
MARY: Oh, the posh boy loves the dominatrix!  He’s never knowingly under-clichéd, is he?
Sherlock: John?
Watson: I’m gonna make a deduction.
Sherlock: Oh, okay. That’s good.
Watson: And if my deduction is right, you’re gonna be honest and tell me, okay?
Sherlock: Okay. Though I should mention that it is possible for any given text alert to become randomly attached to a ...
Watson: Happy birthday.
Sherlock: Thank you, John. That’s ... very kind of you.
Watson: Never knew when your birthday was.
Sherlock: Well, now you do.
Watson: Seriously, we’re not gonna talk about this?
Sherlock: Talk about what?
Watson: I mean, how does it work?
Sherlock: How does what work?
Watson: You and The Woman.
Watson: D’you go to a discreet Harvester sometimes? Is there a ... night of passion in High Wycombe?
High Wycombe is a town in Buckinghamshire.]
Sherlock: Oh, for God’s sakes. I don’t text her back.
Watson: Why not?!
Watson: You bloody moron!
Watson: She’s out there ...  ... she likes you, and she’s alive.
Watson: ... and do you have the first idea how lucky you are?
Watson: Yes, she’s a lunatic, she’s a criminal, she’s insanely dangerous – trust you to fall for a sociopath ...
MARY : Oh, married an assassin!
Watson: ... but she’s ... you know ...
Sherlock: What?
Watson: Just text her back.
Sherlock: Why?
Watson: Because High Wycombe is better than you are currently equipped to understand.
Sherlock: I once caught a triple poisoner in High Wycombe.
Watson: That’s only the beginning, mate.
Sherlock: As I think I have explained to you many times before, romantic entanglement, while fulfilling for other people ...
Watson: ... would complete you as a human being.
Sherlock: That doesn’t even mean anything.
Watson: Just text her. Phone her. Do something while there’s still a chance, because that chance doesn’t last forever. Trust me, Sherlock: it’s gone before you know it.  Before you know it.
Watson: She was wrong about me.
Sherlock: Mary? How so?
Watson: She thought that if you put yourself in harm’s way I’d ... I’d rescue you or something. But I didn’t – not ’til she told me to.  And that’s how this works. That’s what you’re missing.  She taught me to be the man she already thought I was. Get yourself a piece of that.
Sherlock: Forgive me, but you are doing yourself a disservice. I have known many people in this world but made few friends, and I can safely say ...
Watson: I cheated on her.
Watson: No clever comeback?
Watson: I cheated on you, Mary.
Watson: There was a woman on the bus, and I had a plastic daisy in my hair. I’d been playing with Rosie.  And this girl just smiled at me.
Watson: That’s all it was; it was a smile.
Watson: We texted constantly. You wanna know when? Every time you left the room, that’s when. When you were feeding our daughter; when you were stopping her from crying – that’s when.
Watson: That’s all it was, just texting.
Watson: But I wanted more.
Watson: And d’you know something? I still do. I’m not the man you thought I was; I’m not that guy. I never could be. But that’s the point.  That’s the whole point.
Watson: Who you thought I was ...  ... is the man who I want to be.
MARY : Well, then ... John Watson ...
MARY: Get the hell on with it.
Sherlock: It’s okay.
Watson: It’s not okay.
Sherlock: No.
Sherlock: But it is what it is.
Later, after your transcriber has had a bloody good cry and can finally see the screen of her laptop again, the camera pans down from the view over the houses of Baker Street and descends down towards the street.
Sherlock: So Molly’s going to meet us at this ‘cake place.’
Watson: Well, it’s your birthday. Cake is obligatory.
Sherlock: Oh, well. Suppose a sugar high’s some sort of substitute.
Watson: Behave.
Sherlock: Right then. You know ...
Sherlock: ... it’s not my place to say but ... it was just texting.
Sherlock: People text.
Sherlock: Even I text. Her, I mean. Woman. Bad idea; try not to, but, you know, sometimes.
Sherlock: It’s not a pleasant thought, John, but I have this terrible feeling, from time to time, that we might all just be human.
Watson: Even you?
Sherlock: No.
Sherlock: Even you.
Watson: Cake?
Sherlock: Cake.
Sherlock: Oh, um ...
Watson: What? What is it?
Watson: What’s wrong?
Watson: Seriously?!
Sherlock: I’m Sherlock Holmes. I wear the damn hat.
Sherlock: Isn’t that right, Mary?
John is again sitting in the chair in the back room of his therapist’s house, his legs crossed in front of him.
THERAPIST : You seem so much better, John.
Watson: Yeah, I ... I am. I think I am. Not all day; not every day, but, uh, you know.
THERAPIST: It is what it is?
Watson: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And Rosie?
Watson: Oh, beautiful, perfect, unprecedented in the history of children.  That’s not my bias; that’s scientific fact.
THERAPIST: Good.
THERAPIST: And Sherlock Holmes?
Watson: Back to normal.
Sherlock: Get out!
MALE CLIENT: She’s possessed by the Devil!
MALE CLIENT: I swear my wife is channeling Satan!
Sherlock: Yes, boring.  Go away!
WIFE : I’m not channelling Satan!
Sherlock: Why not, given your immediate alternative?
THERAPIST : What about his brother?
Watson: Mycroft? He’s fine.
MYCROFT: So, you’re off now?
MYCROFT: I won’t see you for a week?
LADY SMALLWOOD : Just spending it at home ... unless she calls.
MYCROFT: The P.M.
LADY SMALLWOOD : Here.
MYCROFT : What’s this?
LADY SMALLWOOD: My number.
MYCROFT: I already have your number.
LADY SMALLWOOD: My private number.
MYCROFT: Why would I need that?
LADY SMALLWOOD : I don’t know. Maybe you’d like a drink some time.
MYCROFT : Of what?
LADY SMALLWOOD: Up to you.  Call me.
. Under her name, too out-of-focus to see clearly, are her email address and a telephone number. Mycroft turns and starts to walk away, then he stops, looking thoughtful, and turns back.)
Watson: I mean, obviously ‘normal’ and ‘fine’ are both relative terms when it comes to Sherlock and Mycroft.
THERAPIST : Obviously.
In his office, Mycroft walks back to the desk and reaches out a hand towards the card. He hesitates for a long moment, tapping his fingers on the edge of the desk, then turns away again.
In 221B, Sherlock has gone into the kitchen and holds the piece of paper up to the light suspended over the table, looking at the writing on it. He turns it over and continues looking at it.
Sherlock: She was real.
Mycroft pulls open his office door and starts to walk out, but then pauses, looking thoughtful. Eventually he turns back. A few moments later he picks up the card.
Handwritten on the left page of the notebook on which the card had been lying are the words:
Monitor —
Baker Street.
Blind Greenhouse.
Leaning Tomb.
Clock Face —
Elizabeth
Tower?
On the right hand page is handwritten:
CALL
SHERRINFORD
2 pm
THERAPIST : I didn’t mean Mycroft.
THERAPIST: I meant the other one.
Watson: Wh-which other one?
THERAPIST: You know – the secret one.
Watson: Oh, that was just something I ...  ... I said. I’m sure there’s ...
Watson: How did you know about that? I didn’t tell you that.
THERAPIST: You must have done.
Watson: I really didn’t.
THERAPIST: Well, maybe Sherlock told me.
Watson: No, you’ve met Sherlock exactly once. In this room. He was off his head.
THERAPIST: Oh, no, no. I-I-I met him before that.
Watson: When?
THERAPIST : We spent a night together.
THERAPIST: It was lovely. We had chips.
(Cut-away flashback to Faith sitting at the bus stop beside Sherlock, eating from the carton on her lap.
Cut-away flashback to the camera revolving around that version of Faith as she sits on the client chair in 221B’s living room.
Cut-away to a new flashback of Faith walking briskly alone across one of the Golden Jubilee Bridges holding her walking cane in front of her, clearly having no need for it.)
THERAPIST : You’re not what I expected, Mr Holmes.  You’re ... nicer.
THERAPIST: Culverton gave me Faith’s original note.  A mutual friend put us in touch.
THERAPIST: Did Sherlock ever tell you about the note?
In 221B’s kitchen, Sherlock – still holding Faith’s note in one hand – frantically pulls open the top drawer under the work surface, glances quickly in, slams it shut again and pulls open the next drawer down and starts rummaging inside it.
THERAPIST: I added some deductions for Sherlock.  He was ... quite good.
In 221B’s kitchen Sherlock reaches up to the overhead light and adjusts the bulb until it goes out, plunging the kitchen into near-darkness.
THERAPIST : But ...
Sherlock stares downwards, his face illuminated by a dark blue light.
THERAPIST: ... he didn’t get the big one.
Sherlock shines an ultraviolet torch down onto the note. Illuminated by its blue glow, written on the paper in something like linseed oil, two large words glow brightly, overlaying the handwriting. They read
MISS
ME?
Sherlock’s eyes lift from the note in shock.
The therapist is bent forward, gasping sharply as she holds her right eye open with her left index finger and thumb. Lowering that hand she straightens up and looks down to her right hand. A contact lens is resting on the tip of her index finger. The lens has brown colouring around the centre. Tossing her hair back a little, she turns to look at John, revealing that her right eye is now a grey-blue colour while her left eye is still brown. John stares up at her. When she speaks, all trace of the German accent is gone. She’s now talking with a well-educated southern English accent.
THERAPIST: In fairness, though, he does have excellent taste in chips.
Watson: What’s that?
THERAPIST: What’s what?
Watson: The flower in your hair: it’s like I had on the bus.
THERAPIST : You looked very sweet.  But then ...
THERAPIST: ... you have such nice eyes.
THERAPIST : Amazing the times a man doesn’t really look at your face.  Oh, you can hide behind a sexy smile, or a walking cane ...  ... or just be a therapist, talking about you ...  ... all the time.
THERAPIST: Oh, please don’t go anywhere. I’m sure the therapist who actually lives here wouldn’t want blood on the carpet.
THERAPIST: Oh, hang on, it’s fine. She’s in a sack in the airing cupboard.
Watson: Who are you?
THERAPIST : Isn’t it obvious?  Haven’t you guessed?  I’m Eurus.
Watson: Eurus?
THERAPIST/EURUS: Silly name, isn’t it? Greek. Means the East Wind.
EURUS: My parents loved silly names, like Eurus ... or Mycroft ... or Sherlock.
EURUS: Oh, look at him. Didn’t it ever occur to you – not even once – that Sherlock’s secret brother might just be Sherlock’s secret sister?
EURUS: Huh. He’s making a funny face.
EURUS: I think I’ll put a hole in it.
(John raises his hands again, his eyes wide.
Eurus pulls the trigger.
And in an identical repeat to the beginning of the episode, we see the gun from the business end pointing directly towards the camera as smoke rises from it, but then the image is overlaid with a blood red colour.)In tight close-up, an eye opens revealing its blue iris. We then see the face of the person. It’s a young girl with brown curly hair, who looks no older than ten years old and possibly younger. As she looks up we see that she’s on an aeroplane. The plane is shaking, the lights are flickering on and off and above her the emergency oxygen masks have dropped down and are swaying back and forth. The girl turns to the window and pushes up the blind and looks out. It’s dark outside. She pulls the blind down and turns to the woman sitting beside her with her eyes closed.
GIRL: Mummy?
GIRL: Mummy! Wake up! Wake up! Mummy!
GIRL: Wake up!
GIRL : Help me, please. I’m on a plane and everyone’s asleep. Help me!
VOICE: Hello. My name’s Jim Moriarty. Welcome ... to the final problem.
OPENING CREDITS.
Flickering black and white film footage can be seen. It seems to be a bit of film noir made in the 1940s or 1950s and is set in the office of a private investigator. The investigator, Leonard, stands with his back to his desk and in front of him is a typical femme fatale, Velma, holding a cigarette. Both characters speak with American accents.
LEONARD: You know I could arrest you?
VELMA: What for?
LEONARD: Wearing a dress like that.
VELMA: Would you like me to take it off?
LEONARD: Then I’d really have to press charges.
VELMA: Press away.
VELMA : Isn’t that how they got started?
LEONARD : Who?
VELMA : Adam and Eve.
LEONARD : Oh, them.
VELMA : And that turned out okay.
LEONARD : You think so?
LEONARD : I thought it was supposed to be the beginning of all human misery.
VELMA: Now, what was all that about arresting me?
LEONARD : Well, maybe not arresting you.
VELMA : No?
LEONARD : I could just keep you under close watch.
VELMA: Very close?
LEONARD : Uh-huh.
VELMA : Shame. I was looking forward to putting myself into the hands of the authorities.
LEONARD: You were?
VELMA: Fingerprinting ...
VELMA : ... being searched ...
VELMA: ... thoroughly.
(Again the footage glitches and the boy smiles quirkily into the camera. Now the footage jumps more quickly back and forth between the professional movie and the home movie. In the latter, a beach ball bounces across to a younger boy, about four years old, who has a mop of brown curly hair. The camera pulls up and the mother stands up and waves. Mycroft is obviously puzzled but can’t help smiling at the sight. The father kneels down to the older son who is holding a plate piled high with sandwiches and an apple, and is taking a bite from a sandwich. Whatever the father says to him on the silent footage, the boy pulls the plate protectively closer to him. The footage cuts to the parents sitting in their deckchairs as the father beckons to the younger boy who trots towards them; then it cuts to the younger boy piling on top of the older one who is half-reclined on the sand with a book in his hands. The older boy grins.
Again Mycroft can’t help but smile. The footage cuts to a far shot of the parents and their two boys waving into the camera, then briefly the screen goes white and jagged writing appears reading
I’M BACK
before the family continues to wave at the camera. The footage seems to briefly return to the black and white movie and a tight close-up of the top half of Velma’s face, except that those aren’t the eyes of the actress; they’re Eurus’ eyes. Again the family waves to the camera, then the white screen and the “I’M BACK” message reappear before the footage dissolves. Mycroft stares at the screen in shock while, behind him, the last of the film tape spools off the end of the reel. Mycroft stands and stares at the now blank white screen in front of him. After a moment he walks to a nearby door and takes hold of the handle and tries to open the door. It won’t budge. He takes hold of the handle with both hands and struggles to open the door but to no avail. A female voice whispers echoingly in the room behind him.)
VOICE: Mycroft.
VOICE: Mycroft.
MYCROFT: Why don’t you come out and show yourself? I don’t have time for this.
CHILD’s VOICE: We have time, brother dear. All the time in the world.
CHILD’s VOICE : Mycroft!
MYCROFT: Who are you?
VOICE : You know who!
MYCROFT: Impossible.
VOICE : Nothing’s impossible.
CHILD’s VOICE: You of all people know that.
CHILD’s VOICE : Coming to get you!
CHILD’s VOICE : There’s an East Wind coming, Mycroft! Coming to get you!
MYCROFT : You can’t have got out! You can’t!
CHILD’s VOICE : No use, Mycroft.
CHILD’s VOICE: There’s no defence ...  ... and nowhere to hide.
MYCROFT: Sherlock? Help me!
Sherlock: Experiment complete. Conclusion: I have a sister.
MYCROFT : This was you? All of this was you?
Sherlock: Conclusion two: my sister – Eurus, apparently – has been incarcerated from an early age in a secure institution controlled by my brother.
Sherlock: Hey, bro!
MYCROFT : Why would you do this ...  ... this pantomime? Why?
Sherlock: Conclusion three: you are terrified of her!
MYCROFT : You have no idea what you’re dealing with.  None at all.
Watson: New information: she’s out.
MYCROFT: That’s not possible.
Sherlock: It’s more than possible. She was John’s therapist.
Watson: Shot me during a session.
Sherlock: Only with a tranquilliser.
Watson: Mm. We still had ten minutes to go.
Sherlock: Well, we’ll see about a refund.
Sherlock: Right, you two. Wiggins has got your money by the gate.
Sherlock: Don’t spend it all in one crack den.
Sherlock: Oh, I hope we didn’t spoil your enjoyment of the movie.
MYCROFT: You’re just leaving?
Sherlock: Well, we’re not staying here. Eurus is coming and, uh, someone’s disabled all your security.
Sherlock: Sleep well!
MYCROFT: Doctor Watson. Why would he do that to me? That was insane!
Watson: Uh, yes. Well, someone convinced him that you wouldn’t tell the truth unless you were actually wetting yourself.
MYCROFT: “Someone”?
Watson: Probably me.
MYCROFT: So that’s it, is it? You’re just going?
Watson: Well, don’t worry. There’s a place for people like you – the desperate, the terrified, the ones with nowhere else to run.
MYCROFT : What place?
Watson: Two two one B Baker Street.
Watson: See you in the morning. If there’s a queue, join it!
MYCROFT : For God’s sake! This is not one of your idiot cases.
Watson: You might wanna close that window.  There is an East Wind coming.
221B BAKER STREET. DAY TIME. The client chair sits in the middle of the room facing the fireplace. A man stands beside it but so far we can only see his legs. Sherlock sits in his armchair with his fingers steepled against his chin, staring downwards. Opposite him, John sits and watches him, twirling a pen in the fingers of his left hand. We now see that it’s Mycroft who is standing beside the client chair, his arms folded and a stubborn look on his face. John glances over to him for a moment before looking away again. Mrs Hudson is standing in the doorway with her arms folded, looking at Mycroft and smiling slightly as he lowers his head and bites his lip.
MRS HUDSON: You have to sit in the chair.
MRS HUDSON: They won’t talk to you unless you sit in the chair. It’s the rules.
MYCROFT : I’m not a client.
Sherlock: Then get out.
MYCROFT: She’s not going to stay there, is she?
MRS HUDSON : Would you like a cup of tea?
MYCROFT: Thank you.
MRS HUDSON : The kettle’s over there.
MYCROFT : So what happens now? Are you going to make deductions?
Sherlock: You’re going to tell the truth, Mycroft, pure and simple.
MYCROFT: Who was it said, “Truth is rarely pure, and never simple”?
Sherlock: I don’t know and I don’t care. So there were three of us. I know that now. You, me, and ... Eurus.
Sherlock: A sister I can’t remember. Interesting name, Eurus. It’s Greek, isn’t it?
Watson: Mm. Yeah, uh, literally ‘the god of the East Wind.’
MYCROFT: Yes.
Sherlock: “The East Wind is coming, Sherlock.”  You used that to scare me.
MYCROFT: No.
Sherlock: You turned my sister into a ghost story.
MYCROFT: Of course I didn’t. I monitored you.
Watson: You what?
MYCROFT : Memories can resurface; wounds can re-open. The roads we walk have demons beneath ...  ... and yours have been waiting for a very long time. I never bullied you. I used – at discrete intervals – potential trigger words to update myself as to your mental condition. I was looking after you.
Sherlock: Why can’t I remember her?
MYCROFT: This is a private matter.
Sherlock: John stays.
MYCROFT : This is family.
Sherlock: That’s why he stays.
Watson: So there were three Holmes kids.
Watson: What was the age gap?
MYCROFT: Seven years between myself and Sherlock; one year between Sherlock and Eurus.
Watson: Middle child. Explains a lot.
Watson: So did she have it too?
MYCROFT: Have what?
Watson: The deduction thing.
MYCROFT : “The deduction thing”?
Watson: ... Yes.
MYCROFT : More than you can know.
Watson: Enlighten me.
MYCROFT : You realise I’m the smart one?
Sherlock: As you never cease to announce.
MYCROFT: ... but Eurus, she was incandescent even then. Our abilities were professionally assessed more than once. I was remarkable, but Eurus was described as an era-defining genius, beyond Newton.
Sherlock: Then why don’t I remember her?
MYCROFT: You do remember her, in a way. Every choice you ever made; every path you’ve ever taken – the man you are today ... is your memory of Eurus.
(Sherlock slowly turns his head away. Mycroft looks down as if something has caught his attention.
Without transition his feet are now on a pebble beach. He stands, outdoors somewhere, and straightens up as a dog barks nearby.)
MYCROFT: She was different from the beginning.
MYCROFT: She knew things she should never have known ...
MYCROFT : ... as if she was somehow aware of truths beyond the normal scope.
(He opens his hand in front of him. His fingers are wet and a large pebble lies in his palm.
In his mind, young Eurus turns around on the beach and looks directly at him. Mycroft looks startled.)
EURUS: You look funny grown up.
Watson: What’s wrong?
MYCROFT: Sorry.
MYCROFT: The memories are disturbing.
Sherlock: What do you mean? Examples.
MYCROFT: They found her with a knife once. She seemed to be cutting herself. Mother and Father were terrified. They thought it was a suicide attempt. But when I asked Eurus what she was doing, she said ...
EURUS: I wanted to see how my muscles worked.
Watson: Jesus!
MYCROFT: So I asked her if she felt pain, and she said ...
EURUS: Which one’s pain?
Sherlock: What happened?
MYCROFT: Musgrave.
MYCROFT: The ancestral home, where there was always honey for tea.
MYCROFT: ... and Sherlock played among the funny gravestones.
Watson: Funny how?
WOMAN’s VOICE : Come on, you lot!
MYCROFT : They weren’t real. The dates were all wrong.
(Behind the adults, the camera pans past one of the gravestones. Carved into the stone are the words:
NEMO
HOLMES
1617 - 1822
Aged 32 Years
MYCROFT : An architectural joke which fascinated Sherlock.
CHILD’s VOICE: ♪ ... who will find me / Deep down below the old beech tree? ♪
(The image shifts to the kitchen of the house. A table has plates of food, coloured glasses and cups and saucers in front of the three children, as well as a butter dish and other items in the middle. Sitting on one side of the table beside her oldest brother, young Eurus sings the song while looking across to young Sherlock who is still wearing his pirate hat. He looks back at her unhappily.
In 221B, Sherlock stares into the distance and softly recites the next line while Eurus’ voice echoes in his head.)
Sherlock: Help succour me now ...
SHERLOCK and MYCROFT : ... the East winds blow.
Sherlock: Sixteen by six ...
MYCROFT : ... and under we go.
MYCROFT: You’re starting to remember.
Sherlock: Fragments.
YOUNG Sherlock: Redbeard!
YOUNG Sherlock: Redbeard!
Watson: Redbeard?
ADULT Sherlock: He was my dog.
MYCROFT : Eurus took Redbeard and locked him up somewhere no-one could find him.
YOUNG Sherlock: Redbeard!
MYCROFT: ... and she refused to say where he was.
MYCROFT: She’d only repeat that song; her little ritual.
YOUNG Sherlock: Redbeard!
MYCROFT: We begged and begged her to tell us where he was.
(In 221B’s living room, Sherlock looks away as if he is remembering.
In the woods, young Sherlock trudges back the way he came, still calling out.)
MYCROFT: ... but she said ...
YOUNG EURUS’ VOICE : The song is the answer.
MYCROFT: But the song made no sense.
EURUS: ♪ ... brother, and under we go. ♪
Sherlock: What happened to Redbeard?
MYCROFT: We never found him. But she started calling him “Drowned Redbeard,” so we made our assumptions.  Sherlock was traumatised. Natural, I suppose – he was, in the early days, an emotional child; but after that he was different, so changed. Never spoke of it again. In time, he seemed to forget that Eurus had ever even existed.
Watson: How could he forget? She was living in the same house.
MYCROFT : No. They took her away.
Watson: Why? You don’t lock up a child because a dog goes missing.
MYCROFT: Quite so. It was what happened immediately afterwards.
(Flashback to young Eurus sitting cross-legged on the floor of – presumably – her bedroom with several crayon drawings in front of her. On her far left is a drawing of five people. She has written “family” above the people and underneath, above each head, are the names “daddy”, “mummy”, “mycroft”, “sherlock” and “me”. Across the person labelled “sherlock” she has scrawled a large red cross almost obliterating the figure beneath. Beside that are two separate drawings of her middle brother wearing a yellow and blue striped jumper. The lower one has an arrow pointing to the figure, identifying him as “SHERLOCK” and a burst of blood seems to be coming from his throat and pouring out beside him. The drawing above that one shows a noose around Sherlock’s neck with the rope leading upwards to where it is attached to a wall. The drawing at the top of her collection shows her father on the left beside a beach ball and a sand castle, and water laps at the bottom of the picture. Beside her dad is her mother, then a chubby Mycroft and then herself. A few paces to the right of her is Sherlock. She has drawn grey clouds all around him and has drawn a large red cross across his neck and a larger red cross across his body. There are two more drawings of Sherlock under this picture, one with another large red ‘X’ across his neck while his mouth turns downwards unhappily, and the second with black crosses where his eyes should be and angry red crayon scrawls all around him. Yet another drawing, below an uncorrupted drawing of Mycroft with a very round body – which itself is below a partially obscured drawing of the family home – shows Sherlock lying flat on what looks like a stone table or a slab.
The camera pans across more distressing drawings of Sherlock, and one of a gravestone with “RIP SHERLOCK”  written across it. In front of her, Eurus has another drawing of the house with Sherlock looking unhappily out of one window. As she draws a large cross over the entire window with a blue crayon, her parents’ voices can be heard from a nearby room.)
MR HOLMES : She knows where he is!
MRS HOLMES : We can’t make her tell us. We can’t make her do anything.
. She shakes the box, then strikes a match on the side, holding it up to look at the flame. She gazes down at it, the flame reflecting in her eye.
Outside, adult Mycroft stands looking at the house. The entire upper storey is ablaze and parts of the roof have already fallen in. As more of the roof collapses, large flakes of ash float down around him. He stares towards the house with a look of devastation on his face, and closes his eyes.
In 221B Mycroft’s eyes are closed and it’s as if the ash is still falling around him. He eventually opens his eyes and the ash gradually dissipates.)
MYCROFT: After that, our sister had to be taken away.
Sherlock: Where?
MYCROFT: Oh, some suitable place – or so everyone thought. Not suitable enough, however. She died there.
Watson: How?
MYCROFT: She started another fire, one which she did not survive.
Sherlock: This is a lie.
MYCROFT: Yes. It is also a kindness. This is the story I told our parents to spare them further pain, and to account for the absence of an identifiable body.
Sherlock: And no doubt to prevent their further interference.
MYCROFT: Well, that too, of course. The depth of Eurus’ psychosis and the extent of her abilities couldn’t hope to be contained in any ordinary institution. Uncle Rudy took care of things.
Sherlock: Where is she, Mycroft? Where’s our sister?
MYCROFT: There’s a place called Sherrinford; an island. It’s a secure and very secretive installation whose sole purpose is to contain what we call ‘the uncontainables.’
MYCROFT: The demons beneath the road – this is where we trap them. Sherrinford is more than a prison or an asylum; it is a fortress built to keep the rest of the world safe from what is inside it.
MYCROFT: Heaven may be a fantasy for the credulous and the afraid, but I can give you a map reference for Hell.
MYCROFT: That’s where our sister has been since early childhood. She hasn’t left – not for a single day.
MYCROFT: Whoever you both met, it can’t have been her.
VOICE: ♪ I that am lost / Oh, who will find me / Deep down below / The old beech tree? ♪
VOICE: ♪ Help succour me now / The East Wind’s blowing / Sixteen by six, brother / And under we go. ♪
MYCROFT: Keep back! Keep as still as you can!
Watson: What is it?
VOICE: ♪ My soul seeks / The shade of my willow’s bloom ... ♪
Sherlock: It’s a drone.
Watson: Yeah, I can see that.
Watson: What’s it carrying?
Sherlock: What’s that silver thing on top of it, Mycroft?
MYCROFT : It’s a DX-707.
MYCROFT: I’ve authorised the purchase of quite a number of these.
MYCROFT: Colloquially it is known as “the patience grenade.”
Watson: “Patience”?
MYCROFT: The motion sensor has activated. If any of us move, the grenade will detonate.
Sherlock: How powerful?
MYCROFT: It will certainly destroy this flat and kill anyone in it. Assuming walls of reasonable strength, your neighbours should be safe, but as it’s landed on the floor, I am moved to wonder if the café below is open.
Sherlock: It’s Sunday morning, so it’s closed.
Watson: What about Mrs Hudson?
(The camera sinks down through the floor to the ground floor kitchen. In the middle of the room, Mrs Hudson has an apron over her clothes. She is rocking around the room to the sound of Iron Maiden’s “The Number of the Beast” blaring from the earbuds she’s wearing while she vacuums the lino.
Back upstairs the sound of the vacuum cleaner can faintly be heard.)
Sherlock: Going by her usual routine, I estimate she has another two minutes left.
Watson: She keeps the vacuum cleaner at the back of the flat.
MYCROFT: So?
Watson: So, safer there when she’s putting it away?
Watson: Look, we have to move eventually. We should do it when she’s safest.
Sherlock: When the vacuum stops, we give her eight seconds to get to the back of the flat. She’s fast when she’s cleaning. Then we move.
Sherlock: What’s the trigger response time?
Sherlock: Once we’re mobile, how long before detonation?
MYCROFT: We have a maximum of three seconds to vacate the blast radius.
Sherlock: John and I will take the windows; you take the stairs. Help get Mrs Hudson out too.
MYCROFT: Me?
Sherlock: You’re closer.
MYCROFT: You’re faster.
Sherlock: Speed differential won’t be as critical as the distance.
MYCROFT : Yes, agreed.
Watson: She’s further away. She’s moving to the back.
Sherlock: I estimate we have a minute left. Is a phone call possible?
MYCROFT: Phone call?
Sherlock: John has a daughter.  He may wish to say goodbye.
MYCROFT: I’m sorry, Doctor Watson. Any movement will set off the grenade.
MYCROFT: I hope you understand.
Watson: Oscar Wilde.
MYCROFT: What?
Watson: He said, “The truth is rarely pure, and never simple.” It’s from ‘The Importance of Being Earnest.’ We did it in school.
MYCROFT : So did we. Now I recall. I was Lady Bracknell.
Sherlock: Yeah. You were great.
MYCROFT: You really think so?
Sherlock: Yes, I really do.
MYCROFT: Well, that’s good to know. I’ve always wondered.
Sherlock: Good luck, boys.
Sherlock: Three, two, one, go!
The smoke slowly starts to clear and turns more grey in colour as the camera descends through clouds towards a small fishing boat out on the ocean. A radio broadcast can be heard.
RADIO: And now the shipping forecast, issued by the Met Office on behalf of the Maritime Coastguard Agency at 05:05. Thames, Dover ...
VINCE: Go on, son, get it up.  Better out than in.
BEN: Is it always like this?
VINCE: Nah.
BEN: Thank God.
VINCE: Usually it’s much worse!
BEN : Might go and work in a bank!
BEN: Is that an ’elicopter?
VINCE: Nah, not in this weather.
RADIO: ... Lundy, Fastnet, Irish Sea, Shannon, Malin, Sherrinford. Sherrinford. Sherrinford.
BEN: You hear that?
RADIO: Sherrinford.
BEN: I never ’eard that one before.
BEN: Sherrinford?
VINCE : Forget you ever ’eard it.
BEN: What?
VINCE: Sometimes when we’re out in these waters, we get that message. Just forget about it.
BEN: Yeah, but we’ve never ...
VINCE: Just ...
VINCE: Who the ’ell are you?
Sherlock: My name’s Sherlock Holmes.
BEN: The detective!
Sherlock: The pirate.
SHERRINFORD ISLAND. A distant shot of the island shows a large storm front close by it. Rain is pouring from the clouds and lightning flashes inside them. The rain hasn’t yet reached the island. Above the island the camera rotates over the top of the castle-like structure and shows several guards, all dressed warmly against the weather and with blue beanie hats on their heads, patrolling the rooftops and carrying rifles.
We cut inside to what must be the Control Room of the facility. On the lower level and on the stairs to either side more rifle-carrying guards, without the coats or hats and all wearing white shirts, stand in various places around the area. Yellow-jumpsuited auxiliary staff walk around, going about their daily business. Above the area is a small glass-walled room with many computer screens.
We switch to a view inside the glass room. Across the area outside, a natural-looking opening in the rock looks out towards the ocean. Inside the glass room, a technician speaks into a radio.
TECHNICIAN: Golf Whiskey X-ray, this is a restricted area, repeat, restricted area. You are off course.
TECHNICIAN : Are you receiving?
TECHNICIAN: Golf Whiskey X-ray, you are off course. Are you receiving?
JOHN’s VOICE: Yeah, receiving you. This is a distress call, repeat, distress call. We’re in trouble here.
TECHNICIAN: Golf Whiskey X-ray, what is your situation?
TECHNICIAN: Golf Whiskey X-ray? Where are you now?
JOHN’s VOICE : We’re headed for the rocks. We’re going to hit.
(The technician sits back in his chair, then types rapidly on a keypad on his desk. A message comes up on his screen reading
SYSTEM LOCKDOWN
RED 5 PROCESS INITIATED
A stream of numbers and letters scrolls underneath. The technician moves his headset microphone closer to his mouth.)
TECHNICIAN: Governor to the Control Room.
AUTOMATED VOICE: Lockdown in progress. Lockdown in progress.
AUTOMATED VOICE: Please proceed to designated Red stations. Please proceed to designated Red stations.
BEN: No, hold it! Wait, wait, wait, wait!
GUARD: Oi! In the sand!
GUARD: In the sand!
(The guards turn to look and we see what the men on the bridge can see. A small inflatable boat has been dragged up and left nearer the water. In between the boat and the men, drawn in the sand in large letters are the words
TELL MY
SISTER
I’M HERE
Inside the facility the governor of the place hurries out of a lift and into the Control Room, a phone raised to his ear. Around him the auxiliary staff are rushing around the room while the siren continues to blare.)
GOVERNOR : I need to speak to Mycroft.
SIR EDWIN : He’s in hospital. There was an explosion.
GOVERNOR : Put me through to the hospital.
SIR EDWIN: He’s not conscious. He’s severely injured. No-one is even confident he’s going to pull through.
GOVERNOR : Where’s his brother? Where’s Sherlock Holmes?
SIR EDWIN: Missing.
GOVERNOR: No, he’s not. He’s here.
TECHNICIAN: Sir, we found two more from the boat.
FISHERMAN: He stole our boat! Him an’ another fella, with guns!
GOVERNOR: Where’d you find them?
GUARD : North side of the island, sir.
GOVERNOR: Holding cell, now.
IRISH GUARD: Right, sir.
AUTOMATED VOICE: Lockdown in progress.
Not long afterwards, the alarms have stopped. John and the fisherman sit side by side at a table in a small room. The governor walks to the mesh door in front of them and stops. Someone offscreen deactivates the lock and the door opens. The governor walks inside. One of the beanie-hatted guards is standing inside the room beside the door, holding his rifle pointed down to the floor in front of him. The fisherman immediately starts talking.
FISHERMAN: This is a mistake. I’m the victim ’ere.  This man stole my boat. ’e’s a pirate.
Watson: Yeah, I really am.
GOVERNOR: Please, sit down.
FISHERMAN : I-I don’t even know who ’e is!
GOVERNOR: He’s Doctor John Watson, formerly of the Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers.  What are you doing here?
Watson: It’s a hospital. Any work?
GOVERNOR: It’s not a hospital.
GOVERNOR: I want eyes on Eurus Holmes. Go straight to the Special Unit, deploy Green and Yellow Shift on my authority.
GUARD : Sir.
GOVERNOR: I’m sparing your blushes because we’re supposed to be on the same side; and frankly, this is embarrassing.
Watson: Ooh, doing a cavity search?
GOVERNOR: The true art of disguise, according to your famous friend, is not being looked at.
GOVERNOR: But I am looking at you, aren’t I, Mr Holmes?
FISHERMAN : Yes, you are.
Watson: But that is sort of the point ...  ... isn’t it?
Watson: See, you should have been looking at the guy you just gave your pass to.
(Beside him, the ‘fisherman’ pulls off his hat with one hand, pulling off the white hair at the same time. With his other hand he pulls off his false nose and moustache, leaving just the white beard in place. Sighing with relief, he lowers his hands to reveal the face of Mycroft. The governor’s smile drops as Mycroft grins down at him through his grubby false teeth and raises his eyebrows at him.
Elsewhere in the facility, the guard trots down some stairs and swipes the governor’s card through a reader. The nearby doors open and he gets into the lift which they have revealed. Turning to face the front we see that this is indeed Sherlock, his hair hidden under the beanie hat. The doors close.
Back in the holding cell, Mycroft has now removed all traces of his disguise and the outer clothing he was wearing, revealing that he kept on his blue trousers, a white shirt and blue waistcoat. He stands in front of a large mirror on the side wall, smoothing down his hair.)
MYCROFT: That’s the trouble with uniforms and name badges. People stop looking at faces. You’d be better off with clown outfits.  At least they’d be satirically relevant.
Watson: Oh, you’ll find the real Landers on the north shore, tied up with two others.
GOVERNOR: Two others?
Watson: Mm. Well, it was trial and error.  We had to find the right waistband.
GOVERNOR: This is insane! This is unnecessary!
Watson: No; your security is compromised and we don’t know who to trust.
GOVERNOR: And that justifies dressing up?
MYCROFT : Yes it does!
MYCROFT : It justifies dressing up or any damned thing I say it does. Now, listen to me: for your own physical safety do not speak, do not indulge in any non-verbal signals suggestive of internal thought. If the safety of my sister is compromised; if the security of my sister is compromised; if the incarceration of my sister is compromised – in short, if I find any indication my sister has left this island at any time, I swear to you, you will not.
MYCROFT : Say thank you to Doctor Watson.
GOVERNOR: Why?
MYCROFT: He talked me out of Lady Bracknell. This could have been very different.
MYCROFT: Are you in?
Sherlock: Just arriving at the Secure Unit. Explain.
AUTOMATED VOICE: Door opening.
MYCROFT : A prison within a prison. Eurus must be allowed the strict minimum of human interaction.
Sherlock: Why?
MYCROFT: Since you’re determined to meet her, you’re about to find out.
Sherlock: Eyes on Eurus Holmes.  Governor’s orders.
Back in the holding cell Mycroft has now put on his suit jacket and has walked closer to the governor.
MYCROFT: Answer yes or no. Has there ever been – against my express instructions – any attempt at a psychiatric evaluation of Eurus Holmes?
GOVERNOR: Yes.
MYCROFT: I presume the tapes are in my office?
GOVERNOR: Your office?
MYCROFT : Cast your mind back. It used to be yours.
At the Special Unit Sherlock steps onto a marked area on the floor a few feet in front of a door. The white lighting above his head begins to oscillate back and forth, so presumably he is being scanned. The violin music continues faintly from where a man is sitting at a nearby set of computer screens but it no longer sounds like Eurus’ song. Another white-shirted guard stands beside the door.
GUARD: You ’aven’t been down ’ere before, ’ave you? “Silence of the Lambs,” basically.
Sherlock: You what?
GUARD: Keep your distance; stay at least three feet away from the glass an’ all that.
Sherlock: Why the headphones?
GUARD: She doesn’t stop playin’, sometimes for weeks.
Sherlock: Beautiful.
GUARD: Kills you in the end.
Sherlock: Aye. Still beautiful, though.
AUTOMATED VOICE: Door closing.
(The door closes behind him and Sherlock instantly straightens up from his slouch. He takes off his jacket and drops it to the floor.
Downstairs a little later, the lift door slides open. Sherlock has now removed the rest of the guard’s clothing and the hat and is in his normal suit with his hair fluffed into its usual style. Several feet in front of the lift is a wide wall made up of three floor-to-ceiling glass panels. On each of the panels, about three feet from the floor, a notice has been stencilled onto the glass reading in white letters “MAINTAIN DISTANCE OF THREE FEET”. On the other side of the glass is a large semi-circular room lined with bare grey panels. Soft white lighting comes from the tops of the panels and a large circular panel of lights in the middle of the ceiling sends green light down into the room. Running down the middle of the room, about eight feet wide, is a rectangular strip of white flooring and the rest of the floor is grey, matching the walls. There is a bed at the far end of the room and to the left near the end is a seat and table fastened to the wall. There is no other furniture. In the middle of the room Eurus stands with her back to the door, playing a Bach-like piece on her violin.
Sherlock steps forward and the lift door closes behind him. The overhead lighting turns from green to white. Eurus stops playing and stands there unmoving. After a couple of seconds she starts to play again, this time the familiar tune of her song. Sherlock stands silently, blinking frequently, and briefly flashes back to his young self running through the shallows of the river while Redbeard trots about in the water nearby. In the cell he presses his lips together uncomfortably but doesn’t move while Eurus continues to play.)
We cut to a large screen on a wall which shows four different angles of Eurus in her cell. This is clearly a recording of a previous time because she is sitting on the floor cross-legged facing the glass, her head slightly lowered.
EURUS: Why am I here?
: Why do you think you’re here?
EURUS: No-one ever tells me.
Down in the cell in the present, Eurus continues to play. Sherlock takes one step forward and immediately Eurus starts to play a frenetic and rapid string of notes. Sherlock lifts his foot from the floor and moves it back and Eurus resumes her previous tune.
In the governor’s office, the men watch the earlier recording.
EURUS: Am I being punished?
MAN : You’ve been bad.
EURUS : There’s no such thing as ‘bad.’
MAN : What about good?
EURUS: Good and bad are fairytales. We have evolved to attach an emotional significance to what is nothing more than the survival strategy of the pack animal. We are conditioned to invest divinity in utility. Good isn’t really good, evil isn’t really wrong, and bottoms aren’t really pretty. You are a prisoner of your own meat.
MAN : Why aren’t you?
EURUS : I’m too clever.
In the cell, still with her back to the glass, Eurus finishes her tune and lowers her bow but doesn’t turn around. When she speaks, her voice comes through speakers.
EURUS: Did you bring it?
Sherlock: I’m sorry?
EURUS: My hairband. Did you bring it like I asked?
Sherlock: I’m not one of the ... I-I don’t work here.
EURUS: My special hairband.
Sherlock: I’m not one of your doctors.
EURUS : The one I made you steal, from Mummy.
EURUS: It was the last thing I said to you, remember, the day they took me away.
Sherlock: No.
EURUS: No?
Sherlock: No, we’ve spoken since then. You came round to my flat a few weeks back; you pretended to be a woman called Faith Smith. We had chips.
EURUS: Does this mean you didn’t bring my hairband?
Sherlock: How did you manage to get out of this place? How did you do that?
EURUS: Easy. Look at me.
Sherlock: I am looking at you.
EURUS: You can’t see it, can you? You try and try but you just can’t see; you can’t look.
Sherlock: See what?
EURUS: What do you think?
Sherlock: Beautiful.
EURUS: You’re not looking at it.
Sherlock: I meant your playing.
EURUS: Oh, the music.  I never know if it’s beautiful or not; only if it’s right.
Sherlock: Often they’re the same thing.
EURUS : If they’re not always the same thing, what’s the point in beauty?
EURUS: Look at the violin.
Sherlock: I need to know how you escaped.
EURUS : Look at the violin.
Sherlock: It’s a Stradivarius.
EURUS: It’s a gift.
Sherlock: Who from?
EURUS: Me.
Sherlock: Why?
EURUS : You play, don’t you?
Sherlock: How did you know?
EURUS: How did I know? I taught you, don’t you remember? How can you not remember that?
Sherlock: Eurus, I don’t remember you at all.
EURUS : Interesting. Mycroft told me you’d rewritten your memories; he didn’t tell me you’d written me out completely.
Sherlock: What do you mean, “rewritten”?
EURUS: You still don’t know about Redbeard, do you?
EURUS: Oh. This is going to be such a good day.
In the governor’s office, Mycroft has slumped back in the chair and is no longer looking at the screen as the recording playback continues. John, on the other hand, has walked closer to the screen and is watching intensely.
EURUS : She smiles at you when you come home.  Like a reflex.
GOVERNOR: Everyone we sent in there; it-it’s hard to describe.
GOVERNOR: It’s ... it’s like she ...
MYCROFT: ... recruited them.
EURUS : Smiling is advertising.
GOVERNOR: Enslaved them.
MYCROFT: She’s been capable of that since she was five.
EURUS : Smiling is happiness.
MYCROFT: She’s an adult now. I warned you; I ordered you.
GOVERNOR: She’s clinically unique. We had to try.
MYCROFT: At what cost?
EURUS : Happiness is a pop song. Sadness is a poem.
MYCROFT : What cost?
MYCROFT: Tell me the worst thing that has happened.
GOVERNOR : She kept suggesting to Doctor Taylor that he should kill his family.
MYCROFT: And?
GOVERNOR: He said it was like an earworm; couldn’t get her out of his head.
MYCROFT: And?
GOVERNOR: He left.
MYCROFT: And?
GOVERNOR: Killed himself.
MYCROFT : And?
GOVERNOR: ... his family.
EURUS : Are you going to cry?
EURUS: It’s okay if you cry.
MAN : I don’t need to cry.
EURUS: I can help you cry.
In the cell.
EURUS: Play for me.
Sherlock: I need to know how you got out of here.
EURUS : You know already. Look at me. Look and play.
EURUS : No, not Bach; you clearly don’t understand it. Play you.
Sherlock: Me?
EURUS: You.
EURUS: Oh! Have you had sex?
Sherlock: Why do you ask?
EURUS: The music. I’ve had sex.
Sherlock: How?
EURUS: One of the nurses got careless. I liked it. Messy, though. People are so breakable.
Sherlock: I take it he didn’t consent.
EURUS: He?
Sherlock: She?
EURUS: Afraid I didn’t notice in the heat of the moment and afterwards ... well, you couldn’t really tell. Is that vibrato or is your hand shaking?
In the governor’s office Mycroft has stood up and is leaning on the desk with both hands. John, his arms folded, has turned to look at the governor who has sat down at the other side. The footage of Eurus continues to play on the wallscreen.
MYCROFT : I warned you explicitly: no-one was to talk to her alone.
GOVERNOR: You spoke to her.
MYCROFT : I know what I’m doing!
GOVERNOR: You even brought her a visitor on Christmas Day.
MYCROFT : I took a calculated risk.
GOVERNOR: You gave her a Christmas present. Remember her Christmas present?
MYCROFT : I am aware of the dangers Eurus poses, and equipped to deal with them.
Watson: What dangers?
MYCROFT : Eurus doesn’t just talk to people. She ... reprograms them.
MYCROFT: Anyone who spends time with her is automatically compromised.
EURUS : I’m only trying to help you. We can help each other.
EURUS: Helping someone ...  ... is the best way you can help yourself.
MAN : I don’t trust you.
In the cell.
Sherlock: So clearly you remember me.
EURUS : I remember everything; every single thing. You just need a big enough hard drive.
JOHN’s VOICE : Sherlock.
Sherlock: Not now.
JOHN’s VOICE: Vatican Cameos.
Sherlock: In a minute.
EURUS: Let’s continue.
EURUS: Did they tell you to keep three feet from the glass?
Sherlock: Yes.
EURUS: Be naughty. Step closer.
Sherlock: Why?
EURUS: Do it. Step closer.
Sherlock: Tell me what you remember.
EURUS: You, me, and Mycroft.  Mycroft was quite clever. He could understand things if you went a bit slow but you ... you were my favourite.
Sherlock: Why was I your favourite?
EURUS: ’Cause I could make you laugh. I loved it when you laughed. Once I made you laugh all night. I thought you were going to burst.
EURUS: I was so happy.
EURUS: Then Mummy and Daddy had to stop me, of course.
Sherlock: Why?
EURUS : Well, turns out I got it wrong. Apparently, you were screaming.
Sherlock: Why was I screaming?
Sherlock: Redbeard.
Sherlock: I remember Redbeard.
EURUS : Do you, now?
Sherlock: Tell me what I don’t know.
EURUS: Touch the glass.
In the governor’s office, Mycroft is angrily pacing back and forth behind the table, his hands in his pockets.
MYCROFT: I put my trust in you, my implicit trust.
MYCROFT: As governor of this institute ...
GOVERNOR: It’s obvious when it all started. Well, she was never the same after that Christmas. It’s as if you woke her up.
MYCROFT: That is entirely beside the point! You had your orders and failed to act on them.
Watson: Listen to the tape.
MYCROFT: Sorry?
Watson: Do it now. Listen.
MYCROFT: My sister’s methods of ...
Watson: Just listen.
EURUS : You have no idea how I could help.
EURUS : Bring me your wife. I want to meet her.
MAN : I don’t need your help.
In the cell, Sherlock and Eurus are now only one step away from the glass wall between them.
Sherlock: Redbeard was my dog. I know what happened to Redbeard.
EURUS : Oh, Sherlock, you know nothing. Touch the glass, and I’ll tell you the truth.
EURUS: I’ll touch it too, if you’re scared.
On the screen in the governor’s office, Eurus stares into the camera.
EURUS: I can fix her for you, and then I’ll give you her straight back, good as new.
EURUS: I promise.
MAN : That’s all? What you’re proposing is not ... it’s not right.
Watson: Everyone who went in there got affected – “enslaved,” you said.
GOVERNOR : Yes.
Watson: One after the other.
GOVERNOR: Yes.
MYCROFT : Doctor Watson, I think we’ve ...
Watson: Shut up.
EURUS : Do you trust your wife?
Watson: One question.  That’s your voice, isn’t it?
EURUS : Do you really? Do you trust her?
GOVERNOR’s VOICE : You’ve got to stop saying these things.
Watson: If Eurus has enslaved you, then who exactly is in charge of this prison?
GOVERNOR’s VOICE : It’s completely inappropriate.
GOVERNOR : I’m sorry.
Watson: No.
GOVERNOR : Very, very sorry.
Watson: No.
In the cell, Sherlock looks towards Eurus’ raised left hand, the fingers curled slightly.
EURUS : You think it’s a trick. You look so ... unsure. You’re not used to being unsure, are you?
Sherlock: It’s more common than you’d think.
EURUS : Look at you.
EURUS : The man who sees through everything ... is exactly the man who doesn’t notice ...
EURUS : ... when there’s nothing to see through.
EURUS: Do you see how it was done? I know you like explanations.
had always assumed were on the glass and sees that the signs are attached and projecting sideways from the uprights that should be holding the glass. At the top of each upright is a smaller sign, similarly attached and projecting sideways, reading ELEPHANT GLASS and underneath that in smaller letters, SHOCK PROOF. The open end of the sign is shaped into an elephant. Your transcriber shakes an affectionate fist at Arwel wyn Jones, the show’s Production Designer, who has an obsession with putting elephants in the room.)
Sherlock: Signs. You suspended the signs.
EURUS: And my voice? Throat mic. Puts me through the speakers.
EURUS: Don’t you think it’s clever? Simple but clever?
Sherlock: Transparent.
EURUS: Well, you do keep asking me how I got out of here.
EURUS : Like this.
EURUS: Get in here, all of you! Stop me killing him!
EURUS: No, no. Stop me in a minute.
Outside the governor’s office, two yellow jumpsuited auxiliaries are marching John away, holding his arms. John kicks out at the ankle of the man to his right and as he cries out in pain and lets go of his arm, John turns to the other man and headbutts him. While Mycroft starts to struggle against his own captors, John races for the nearby stairs up to the glass Control Room. A male American-accented voice calls loudly from the speaker system. It sounds more than a little familiar.
VOICE: Red alert! Red alert! Big bad bouncy red alert!
GOVERNOR : Doctor Watson!
VOICE : Klingons attacking lower decks! Also, cowboys in black hats, and Darth Vader!
JIM’s VOICE : Don’t be alarmed! I’m here now! I’m here now!
JIM’s VOICE : Did you miss me? Did you miss me?
JIM: Miss me? Miss me? Miss me? Miss me? Miss me? Miss me?
The instrumental opening to Queen’s song “I Want To Break Free” plays as a helicopter flies towards the island and swoops up over the cliffs and the top of the building to the other side. In his office, the governor stands near his desk and watches out of the window while the chopper heads out over the sea and then turns back towards the island again.
Not long afterwards, as the lyrics to the song begin, the helicopter has landed on the beach. Jim Moriarty, suited and booted, wearing sunglasses and with his hair slicked back, climbs out of the back door with white earbuds in his ears. He stands on the side runners for a moment, looking towards the cliffs, then steps down onto the sand and takes a couple of steps forward before whirling his arms and rolling his hips and then spreading his arms wide either side of him with his head thrown back. Either on the soundtrack or in his own imagination, a large crowd roars its approval and applauds. He lowers one arm and raises the other to the skies, looking upwards while two black-suited goons wearing earpieces walk to stand either side of him. Jim lowers his arm and jumps round to face the helicopter before raising his arm and head skywards again. Again the invisible crowd roars and whistles approvingly. He changes arms, pointing the other one upwards, then lowers it and turns around again, standing there for a moment before raising his hands and pulling the earbuds from his ears. The music stops and the helicopter’s rotors can be heard whirling behind him. Several yards in front of him stand the governor and three armed beanie-hatted guards. Jim tucks his earphones into his inside jacket pocket and then strolls forwards, his goons following. He stops a few feet away from the governor; his bodyguards halt one pace in front of him with their shoulders slightly overlapping his.
GOVERNOR: Mr Moriarty.
JIM: Big G.
JIM: “Big G.” Means “governor.” Street speak. I’m a bit down with the kids, you know? I’m relatable that way. D’you like my boys?
JIM: This one’s got more stamina, but he’s less caring in the afterglow.
GOVERNOR: This way, please.
(He turns and walks away.
Shortly afterwards, the doors to a lift open. The governor steps out from one side of the cabin. The bodyguard who Jim just talked about is standing at the other side and the other bodyguard is in the centre but now steps aside to allow Jim – who had been standing behind him – to exit the lift. Jim slowly strolls out followed by his boys and the governor leads them all away. They’re on the same walkway where John was taken down. The governor reaches the staircase at the side of the glass Control Room and turns towards it but Jim slows down and stops facing a narrower corridor which leads straight on. A white-shirted guard holding a rifle stands at the side of the entrance. Jim gestures around the place.)
JIM: Smell all that insane criminality.
JIM: Do you have cannibals here?
GOVERNOR: Yes.
JIM: How many?
GOVERNOR: Three.
JIM : That’s good. People leave their bodies to science; I think cannibals would be so much more grateful.
JIM : Ah.
(Chuckling quietly he turns to follow the governor down the stairs, throwing a brief look to the guard as he lowers his hand. They walk downstairs towards the office. Mycroft is waiting inside at the far side of the room looking out of the window with his hands behind his back. Jim strolls into the room through the door which the governor has held open for him. The governor then walks away and Jim’s goons stop outside. Jim takes off his sunshades and tilts his head to one side.
Mycroft turns around to face him and at the bottom of the screen the words “Christmas Day” appear. Mycroft’s hair appears darker and a little thicker than usual and this is explained moments later when, as the camera angle switches to look at Jim, at the bottom of the screen new words appear reading “Five years ago”. A large part of the fandom boos and throws popcorn at the screen in disappointment that Jim isn’t alive in the present and so we haven’t just had the biggest surprise of the entire series. Jim looks at Mycroft, who breathes out a long breath through his nose.
At the side of the room, a nativity scene has been set up on a table.)
JIM : Ahh.
JIM : Isn’t that sweet?
MYCROFT: Won’t you sit down?
JIM : I wrote my own version of the nativity when I was a child.  “The Hungry Donkey.” It was a bit gory but, if you’re gonna put a baby in a manger, you’re asking for trouble.
MYCROFT: You know what this place is, of course?
JIM : Of course.  So am I under arrest again?
MYCROFT: You remain a person of interest, but until you commit a verifiable crime you are – I regret – at liberty.
JIM: Then why am I here?
MYCROFT: You’re a Christmas present.
JIM: Ah.  How’d you want me?
MYCROFT : There is, in this facility, a prisoner whose intellectual abilities are of occasional use to the British government.
JIM : What, for, like, really difficult sums, long division, that sort of thing?
MYCROFT: She predicted the exact dates of the last three terrorist attacks on the British mainland after an hour on Twitter. That sort of thing. In return, however, she requires treats. Last year it was a violin.
JIM: This year?
MYCROFT: Five minutes’ unsupervised conversation ... with you.
JIM: Me?!  With me?!
MYCROFT: She has noted your interest in the activities of my little brother.
JIM : So ... what’s she got to do ... with Sherlock Holmes?
JIM: Whatever you’re about to tell me ...
JIM : ... I already know it’s gonna be ...
JIM: ... awesome!
Later, the lift door to Eurus’ cell slides open. Eurus is kneeling in the middle of the floor facing the glass. The lights above her head are green. She lifts her head and slowly stands up as Jim walks forward and after a couple of paces the lights turn white. They walk towards each other. In the governor’s office, Mycroft watches the footage grimly. The other two stop a couple of paces either side of the glass and Jim holds his hands out to either side, shrugging.
JIM: I’m your Christmas present.
JIM : So what’s mine?
EURUS : Redbeard.
John’s eyes open and he blinks several times, then grimaces and makes a pained noise. Lifting his head from the bed he’s lying on, he puts his hand to the back of his head. Nearby, Mycroft is leaning back against a grey-panelled wall, the top button of his shirt undone above his slightly loosened tie. Sherlock is pacing but now turns to face John.
Sherlock: How are you?
Watson: Bit of a lump.
Sherlock: True dat, but you have your uses.
Watson: Did you see your sister?
Sherlock: Yes.
Watson: How was that?
Sherlock: Family’s always difficult.
MYCROFT : Is this an occasion for banter?
Sherlock: Mm, case in point.
Watson: Are we phoning someone?
Sherlock: Apparently.
Watson: What’s he doing here?
Sherlock: As he is told.  Eurus is in control.
GIRL : Help me. Please, I’m on a plane and everyone’s asleep.
GIRL: Help me!
JIM’s VOICE: Hello. My name’s Jim Moriarty.
JIM’s VOICE: Welcome ... to the final problem.
Sherlock: It’s okay. He’s dead.
Watson: He doesn’t sound dead.
JIM’s VOICE: This is a recorded announcement.
JIM’s VOICE: Please say hullo to some very old friends of mine.
GIRL: Hello? I can hear you talking. Please help me! I’m on a plane and it’s going to crash!
MYCROFT : What is this? We can’t do this!
Sherlock: Do shut up, dear.
GIRL : Is someone there?
MYCROFT: Is this supposed to be a game?
Sherlock: Be quiet.
GIRL : Please help me!
Sherlock: Oh, hello. Um, try-try to stay calm. Just te-tell me what your name is.
GIRL: I’m not supposed to tell my name to strangers.
Sherlock: Of course not. Very good. But, um, I’ll tell you mine. My name is ...
Sherlock: Hello?
EURUS: Oh dear. We seem to have lost the connection.
MYCROFT: How have you done this? How is any of this possible?
EURUS : You put me in here, Mycroft. You brought me my treats.
Watson: What treats?
(Mycroft turns his head towards him and presses his lips together a little. Sherlock frowns, then looks round at his brother, who turns and returns his gaze.
Sitting in the chair behind the desk in the governor’s office, Eurus raises a remote control and aims it towards the screens at the side of the room. She clicks a button and the lights in the cell turn red. Jim’s face, in close-up, appears on the cell screen. The entire image is coloured red.)
JIM : Clever Eurus! You go, girl!
Watson: How can that be Moriarty?
EURUS: Oh, he recorded lots of little messages for me before he died.
EURUS: Loved it. Did you know his brother was a station master? I think he was always jealous.
Sherlock: The girl – where is she? Can I talk to her again?
EURUS: Poor little thing. Alone in the sky in a great big plane with nowhere to land. But where in the world is she? It’s a clever little puzzle. If you want to apply yourself to it, I can reconnect you; but first ...
GOVERNOR : That’s my wife.
GOVERNOR: That’s my wife!  Oh, God, that’s my wife!
EURUS: I’m going to shoot the governor’s wife.
GOVERNOR: Please, no.  Please. Help her!
EURUS : ... in about a minute.  Bang. Dead!
Sherlock: Please don’t do that.
EURUS: Well, you can stop me.
Sherlock: How?
EURUS: There’s a gun in the hatch. Take it.
EURUS: You want to save the governor’s wife? Choose either Doctor Watson or Mycroft to kill the governor.
GOVERNOR: Oh ... oh God!
EURUS: You can’t do it, Sherlock. If you do it, it won’t count. I’ll kill her anyway. It has to be your brother or your friend.
GOVERNOR: You have to do this.
GOVERNOR: Eurus will kill her.
Sherlock: Doesn’t appear we have a choice.
EURUS : Right, then.
EURUS: Countdown starting.
MYCROFT: How long?
EURUS: No, no, no. The countdown is for me.
EURUS: Withholding the precise deadline will apply the emotional pressure more evenly. Where possible, please give me an explicit verbal indication of your anxiety levels.
EURUS: I can’t always read them from your behaviour.
MYCROFT : I can’t do this.
MYCROFT : Can’t. It’s murder.
GOVERNOR : This is not murder. This is saving my wife.
EURUS: I’m particularly focussed on internal conflicts, where strategising around a largely intuitive moral code appears to create a counter-intuitive result.
MYCROFT: I will not kill. I will not have blood on my hands.
EURUS: Yes, very good.  Thank you.
GOVERNOR : Killing my wife is what you’re doing.
MYCROFT : No.
Sherlock: Okay, fine.
Sherlock: John.
GOVERNOR: Doctor Watson. Are you married?
Watson: I was.
GOVERNOR: What happened?
Watson: She died.
GOVERNOR : What would you give to get her back? I mean, if you could, if it was possible?
GOVERNOR: What would you do to save her?
GOVERNOR: Eurus will kill me. Please save my wife.
EURUS: There will, I’m afraid, be regular prompts to create an atmosphere of urgency.
JIM: Tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock, tick ...
JIM: Tick-tick-tick-tick-tick-tick-tick-tick-tock, tick-tock ...
Watson: What’s your name?
GOVERNOR: David.
Watson: And you’re sure about this, David?
GOVERNOR : ’Course I’m bloody sure.
EURUS: Nearly there.
Watson: Right. D’you want to ... pray, or anything?
GOVERNOR: With Eurus Holmes in the world, who the hell would I pray to?
Watson: You are a good man, and you are doing a good thing.
GOVERNOR : So are you.
Watson: I’ll spend the rest of my life telling myself that.
GOVERNOR : Please!
GOVERNOR : Oh, God!
Watson: I know that you’re scared, but you should also be very proud.
GOVERNOR : Just do it.
GOVERNOR: Be quick!
JIM : Tick-tick-tick-tick-tick-tick.
EURUS: This is very good, Doctor Watson.
EURUS: I should have fitted you with a cardiograph.
Watson: Goodbye, David.
JIM: Tock-tock-tock-tock-tock-tock-tock tick-tick-tick.
GOVERNOR : Please!
Watson: I can’t.  I’m sorry. I can’t do it.
Sherlock: I know. It’s all right.
Watson: Stop! No, no, stop.
GOVERNOR : I’m sorry.
Sherlock: It’s all right.
GOVERNOR: I’m so sorry.
GOVERNOR : Remember me.
Sherlock: No!
Watson: No!
Sherlock: Are you all right?
EURUS: Interesting.
Sherlock: All right, there you go. You got what you wanted ...  ... and he’s dead.
EURUS: Dead or alive ...  ... he really wasn’t very interesting, but you three ...  ... you three were wonderful. Thank you.  You see, what you did, Doctor Watson ...
EURUS: ... specifically because of your moral code ...
EURUS: ... because you don’t want blood on your hands, two people are dead instead of one.
Watson: Two people?
EURUS: Yes. Sorry, hang on.
Watson: Oh!
(Mycroft gasps and also turns away, sighing.
From a close-up view on the balcony, there’s now a small round hole in the window. The focus moves to Eurus inside the room, looking towards the hole. After a moment she rotates the chair round to face the side of the room. From the cell, David’s wife can be seen slumped in the chair on the balcony, her head thrown back.)
EURUS: What advantage did your moral code grant you?
EURUS: Is it not, in the end, selfish to keep one’s hands clean at the expense of another’s life?
Watson: You didn’t have to kill her!
EURUS: The condition of her survival was that you or Mycroft had to kill her husband.
EURUS: This is an experiment. There will be rigour. Sherlock, pick up the gun. It’s your turn next.
EURUS: When I tell you to use it – and I will – remember what happened this time.
Sherlock: What if I don’t want a gun?
EURUS: Oh, the gun is intended as a mercy.
Sherlock: For whom?
EURUS: You.
Sherlock: How so?
EURUS: If someone else had to die, would you really want to do it with your bare hands? It would waste valuable time.
Watson: Probably just take it.
Sherlock: There’s only one bullet left.
EURUS: You will only need one. But you will need it.
EURUS: Please, go through. There’s a few tasks for you, and a girl on a plane is getting very, very scared.
Sherlock: Treats?
MYCROFT: Yes. You know, a violin.
Sherlock: In exchange for ...?
MYCROFT: She’s very clever.
Sherlock: I’m beginning to think you’re not.
JIM’s VOICE: Come on now! Aaaaaall aboard!  Choo-choo! Choo-choo!
Sherlock walks along a narrow grey-walled corridor and turns into a room which is much smaller than the cell. Although also grey in colour, the walls have been messily daubed with red paint so that it looks like they’re heavily covered with blood. He looks around as he walks deeper into the room, John and Mycroft following him.
Sherlock: Someone’s been redecorating.
Watson: Is that allowed?
Sherlock: She’s literally taken over the asylum. We have more to worry about than her choice of colour scheme.
MYCROFT: Barely dry. Recent.
Sherlock: It’s for our benefit.
EURUS: As a motivator to your continued co-operation, I’m now reconnecting you.
JIM : Fasten your seatbelts! It’s gonna be a bumpy night.
GIRL’s VOICE: Are-are you still there?
Sherlock: Yes, hello?
Sherlock: Hello. We’re still here. Can you hear us?
GIRL: Yes.
Sherlock: Everything’s gonna be all right. I just need you to tell me where you are. Outside, is it day or night?
GIRL: Night.
MYCROFT : That certainly narrows it down to half the planet.
Sherlock: What kind of a plane are you on?
GIRL: Um, I don’t know.
Watson: Is it big or small?
GIRL: Big.
Watson: Lots of people on it?
GIRL: Lots and lots, but they’re all asleep. I can’t wake them up.
Sherlock: Where did you take off from?
GIRL: Even the driver’s asleep.
Sherlock: No, I understand; but where did you come from? Where did the plane take off?
GIRL: My nan’s.
Sherlock: And where are you going?
GIRL: Home.
Sherlock: No, I mean what airport are you ...
EURUS : Enough for now.  Time to play a new game.
EURUS : Look on the table in front of you.
EURUS : Open the envelope! If you want to speak to the girl again, earn yourself some phone time!
MYCROFT: This is inhuman; this is insane!
Watson: Mycroft, we know.
EURUS: Six months ago, a man called Evans was murdered; unsolved except by me.
EURUS: He was shot from a distance of three hundred metres with this rifle.
EURUS: Now, if the police had any brains they’d realise there are three suspects, all brothers. Nathan Garrideb, Alex Garrideb and Howard Garrideb.
EURUS: All these photos are up-to-date, but which one pulled the trigger, Sherlock? Which one?
Watson: What’s this? W-we’re supposed to solve this based on what?
Sherlock: This. This is all we get.
EURUS: Please, make use of your friends, Sherlock. I want to see you interact with people that you’re close to. Also, you may have to choose which one to keep.
Sherlock: What do you make of it?
MYCROFT: Am I being asked to prove my usefulness?
Sherlock: Yes, I should think you are.
MYCROFT: I will not be manipulated like this.
Sherlock: Fine. John?
Sherlock: John?
Watson: Yeah, I think I’ve seen one of these. It’s a buffalo gun.  I’d say nineteen forties, old-fashioned sight, no crosshairs.
Sherlock: Glasses, glasses.  Nathan wears glasses. Evans was shot from three hundred metres.
(Brief cut-away to Nathan’s hands – as evidenced by the corduroy jacket – raising the rifle in front of him and moving his finger towards the trigger.
In the small room Sherlock raises the rifle and aims it towards the opposite wall as if he’s about to fire it.)
Sherlock: Kickback from a gun with this calibre ...
Sherlock: ... would be massive.
Sherlock: No cuts, no scarring. Not Nathan, then.  Who’s next?
MYCROFT : Well done, Doctor Watson. How useful you are.
MYCROFT: Do you have a suspicion we’re being made to compete?
Watson: No, we’re not competing. There’s a plane in the air that’s gonna crash, so what we’re doing is actually trying to save a little girl. Today we have to be soldiers, Mycroft, soldiers ...
Watson: ... and that means to hell with what happens to us.
MYCROFT : Your priorities do you credit.
Watson: No, my priorities just got a woman killed.
EURUS : Now, as I understand it, Sherlock, you try to repress your emotions to refine your reasoning. I’d like to see how that works, so, if you don’t mind, I’m going to apply some context to your deductions.
MYCROFT: Oh, dear God.
EURUS: Two of the Garridebs work here as orderlies, so getting the third along really wasn’t too difficult.
EURUS: Once you bring in your verdict, let me know and justice will be done.
Sherlock: Justice?
Watson: What will you do with them?
EURUS: Early release.
Sherlock: You’ll drop them into the sea.
EURUS: Sink, or swim.
Watson: They’re tied up!
EURUS: Exactly! Now there is context.
EURUS: Please, continue with your deductions. I’m now focussing on the difference to your mental capacity a specified consequence can make.
MYCROFT : Why should we bother?
MYCROFT: What if we’re disinclined to play your games, little sister?
EURUS: I have – if you remember – provided you with some motivation.
GIRL’s VOICE : We’re going through the clouds, like cotton wool.
Sherlock: Oh. That’s nice. Try to tell me more about the plane.
GIRL: Why won’t my mummy wake up?
Sherlock: So it’s got to be one of the other two.
Sherlock: Now, Howard.
Sherlock: Howard’s a lifelong drunk. Pallor of his skin, terminal gin blossoms on his red nose ...  ... and – terror notwithstanding – a bad case of the DTs.
Sherlock: There’s no way he could have taken that shot from three hundred metres away.
Sherlock: So that leaves us with Alex.
Sherlock: Indentations on the temples suggest he habitually wears glasses. Frown lines suggest a lifetime of peering.
MYCROFT: He’s shortsighted, or he was. His recent laser surgery has done the trick.
Sherlock: Laser surgery?
MYCROFT: Look at his clothes. He’s made an effort.
Watson: That’s very good.
Sherlock: Excellent. Suddenly he sees himself in quite a different light now that he’s dumped the specs. Even has a spray tan. But he’s clearly not used to his new personal grooming ritual.
Sherlock: That can be told by the state of his fingernails and the fact that there’s hair growing in his ears.  So it’s a superficial job, then.
Sherlock: But he got his eyes fixed. His hands were steady. He pulled the trigger.
Sherlock: He killed Evans.
EURUS: Are you ready to condemn the prisoner?
MYCROFT: Sherlock, we can’t do this.
Sherlock: The plane, remember?
EURUS : Sherlock? Are you ready?
Sherlock: Alex.
EURUS: Say it. Condemn him.
EURUS: Condemn him in the knowledge of what will happen to the man you name.
Sherlock: I condemn Alex Garrideb.
JIM’s VOICE : Mind the gap.
EURUS: Congratulations.
EURUS: You got the right one.
EURUS: Now, go through the door.
Watson: You dropped the other two. Why?
EURUS : Interesting.
Watson: WHY?
EURUS: Does it really make a difference, killing the innocent instead of the guilty?  Let’s see.
JIM: The train has left the station!
EURUS : No. That felt pretty much the same.
Sherlock: John.
Sherlock: Don’t let her distract you.
Watson: Distract me?
Sherlock: Soldiers today.
Further along a narrow corridor another door slides open and Sherlock walks through the doorway, holding the pistol in both hands lowered towards the floor while the other two follow him. They’re in a small room with black walls and floor and no window and the room is only dimly lit. Unlike the previous one, there’s no red paint on the walls. A wall screen is currently showing only pouring water. In the middle of the room resting on two trestles is a light brown wooden coffin with brass handles and no lid. Light shines down onto it. Sherlock walks across and looks down into the coffin, then raises his head to look for the light source. There’s a narrow open chimney in the middle of the ceiling from which daylight is coming. As the camera pans around and shows that the lid of the coffin is propped up against the far wall, its underside facing the room, the speakers click and Eurus’ voice is heard.
EURUS: One more minute on the phone.
GIRL: Frightened. I’m really frightened.
Sherlock: It’s okay, don’t worry.
Sherlock: I don’t have very long with you, so I just need you to tell me what you can see outside the plane.
GIRL: Just the sea. I can see the sea.
Sherlock: Are there ships on it?
GIRL: No ships. I can see lights in the distance.
Sherlock: Is it a city?
GIRL: I think so.
MYCROFT: She’s about to fly over a city in a pilotless plane. We’ll have to talk her through it.
Watson: Through what?
GIRL : Hello? Are you still there?
Sherlock: Still here. Just give us a minute.
MYCROFT : Getting the plane away from any mainland, any populated areas. It has to crash in the sea.
Watson: What about the girl?
MYCROFT : Well, obviously, Doctor Watson, she’s the one who’s going to crash it.
Watson: No. W-we could help her land it.
MYCROFT: And if we fail, and she crashes into a city? How many will die then?
Watson: How are we gonna get her to do that?
MYCROFT : I’m afraid we’re going to have to give her hope.
Sherlock: Is there really no-one there that can help you? Have you really, really checked?
GIRL: Everyone’s asleep. Will you help me?
Sherlock: We’re going to do everything that we can.
GIRL: I’m scared. I’m really scared.
Sherlock: It’s all right. I ...
EURUS : Now, back to the matter in hand.
EURUS: Coffin. Problem: someone is about to die. It will be – as I understand it – a tragedy.
EURUS : So many days not lived, so many words unsaid.
EURUS: Et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
Sherlock: Yes, yes, yes, and this – I presume – will be their coffin.
EURUS: Whose coffin, Sherlock? Please, start your deductions. I will apply some context in a moment.
Sherlock: Well, allowing for the entirely pointless courtesy of headroom, I’d say this coffin is intended for someone of about five foot four. Makes it more likely to be a woman.
Watson: Not a child?
Sherlock: A child’s coffin would be more expensive. This is in the lower price range, although still best available in that bracket.
Watson: A lonely night on Google
Sherlock: This is a practical and informed choice. Balance of probability suggests that this is for an unmarried woman distant from her close relatives. That much is suggested by the economy of choice.
Sherlock: Acquainted with the process of death but unsentimental about the necessity of disposal. Also, the lining of the coffin ...
MYCROFT : Yes, very good, Sherlock, or we could just look at the name on the lid.
MYCROFT: Only it isn’t a name.
(Sherlock turns away. The brass plate comes into focus and it reads
I LOVE YOU
Watson: So, it’s for somebody who loves somebody.
MYCROFT: It’s for somebody who loves Sherlock.  This is all about you. Everything here.
MYCROFT: So who loves you? I’m assuming it’s not a long list.
Watson: Irene Adler.
Sherlock: Don’t be ridiculous. Look at the coffin. Unmarried, practical about death, alone.
Watson: Molly.
Sherlock: Molly Hooper.
EURUS: She’s perfectly safe, for the moment.
EURUS : Her flat is rigged to explode in approximately three minutes ...
EURUS: ... unless I hear the release code from her lips. I’m calling her on your phone, Sherlock. Make her say it.
Watson: Say what?
EURUS: Obvious, surely?
Watson: No.
Sherlock: Yes.
EURUS : Oh, one important restriction: you’re not allowed to mention in any way at all that her life is in danger.
EURUS: You may not – at any point – suggest that there is any form of crisis. If you do, I will end this session and her life. Are we clear?
JIM’s VOICE : Tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tick.
(The phone connects and starts ringing out. In Molly’s kitchen, she is standing with her elbows on the front of the sink and her head in her hands. Her phone begins to ring on the worktop behind her and she straightens up to turn and look at it. A close-up of the Caller I.D. on the phone shows that it reads “Sherlock”.
In the coffin room, Sherlock shifts his footing and frowns at the screen. In her flat Molly walks slowly across to the work surface. It’s clear that she has been crying. Glancing towards the phone lying nearby, she picks up an orange from the chopping board in front of her and starts to cut a slice from it. There is a large tea cup beside the board. Sherlock frowns as the phone continues to ring.)
Sherlock: What’s she doing?
MYCROFT: She’s making tea.
Sherlock: Yes, but why isn’t she answering her phone?
Watson: You never answer your phone.
Sherlock: Yes, but it’s me calling.
MOLLY’s VOICE : Hi, this is Molly, at the dead centre of town.
MOLLY’s VOICE: Leave a message.
EURUS : Okay, okay. Just one more time.
Watson: Come on, Molly, pick up. Just bloody pick up.
(Now squeezing the juice from the slice of orange into the tea cup, Molly looks across to her phone. After a moment, looking exasperated, she dumps the orange down onto the chopping board, picks up a tea towel and wipes her fingers on it and then, sniffing, walks over to the phone. Seeing that the caller is again identified as Sherlock, her hand hesitates momentarily as she reaches for the phone but then she picks it up. She holds it in front of her, looking at the screen.
In the coffin room, Sherlock is holding the pistol in both hands and has lowered his forehead onto the top of it. He lifts his head when Molly finally answers.)
MOLLY : Hello, Sherlock. Is this urgent, ’cause I’m not having a good day.
Sherlock: Molly, I just want you to do something very easy for me, and not ask why.
MOLLY : Oh, God. Is this one of your stupid games?
Sherlock: No, it’s not a game. I ... need you to help me.
MOLLY: Look, I’m not at the lab.
Sherlock: It’s not about that.
MOLLY : Well, quickly, then.
MOLLY : Sherlock? What is it? What do you want?
JIM: Tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tick.
Sherlock: Molly, please, without asking why, just say these words.
MOLLY : What words?
Sherlock: I love you.
MOLLY: Leave me alone.
Sherlock: Molly, no, please, no, don’t hang up! Do not hang up!
EURUS: Calmly, Sherlock, or I will finish her right now.
MOLLY: Why are you doing this to me? Why are you making fun of me?
Sherlock: Please, I swear, you just have to listen to me.
EURUS: Softer, Sherlock!
Sherlock: Molly, this is for a case. It’s ... it’s a sort of experiment.
MOLLY: I’m not an experiment, Sherlock.
Sherlock: No, I know you’re not an experiment. You’re my friend. We’re friends. But ... please. Just ... say those words for me.
MOLLY : Please don’t do this. Just ... just ... don’t do it.
Sherlock: It’s very important. I can’t say why, but I promise you it is.
MOLLY: I can’t say that. I can’t ... I can’t say that to you.
Sherlock: Of course you can. Why can’t you?
MOLLY: You know why.
Sherlock: No, I don’t know why.
MOLLY: Of course you do.
JIM: Tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tick-tick-tick ...
Sherlock: Please, just say it.
MOLLY : I can’t. Not to you.
Sherlock: Why?
MOLLY : Because ...  ... because it’s true.
MOLLY: Because ... it’s ...  ... true, Sherlock.
MOLLY : It’s always been true.
Sherlock: Well, if it’s true, just say it anyway.
MOLLY: You bastard.
Sherlock: Say it anyway.
MOLLY: You say it. Go on. You say it first.
Sherlock: What?
MOLLY : Say it.  Say it like you mean it.
EURUS: Final thirty seconds.
Sherlock: I-I ...
Sherlock: I love you.
Sherlock: I love you.
Sherlock: Molly?
Sherlock: Molly, please.
MOLLY: I love you.
(Sherlock gasps and rears back from the screen as the countdown clock beeps several times to signify that it has stopped. Both John and Mycroft heave out noisy sighs of relief. Sherlock also sighs and buries his head in both hands, bending forward. In her kitchen, Molly closes her eyes. In the coffin room the countdown has stopped at 00:02. One of the cameras in the kitchen shows Molly putting the phone down and raising both hands to her mouth.
Sherlock lifts his head and straightens up, sighing out loudly and looking exhausted. Mycroft walks towards him.)
MYCROFT: Sherlock, however hard that was ...
Sherlock: Eurus, I won. I won.
Sherlock: Come on, play fair. The girl on the plane: I need to talk to her.
Sherlock: I won. I saved Molly Hooper.
EURUS: Saved her? From what? Oh, do be sensible. There were no explosives in her little house. Why would I be so clumsy? You didn’t win. You lost.
EURUS: Look what you did to her. Look what you did to yourself.
EURUS: All those complicated little emotions. I lost count. Emotional context, Sherlock. It destroys you every time.
EURUS: Now, please, pull yourself together. I need you at peak efficiency. The next one isn’t going to be so easy.
EURUS: In your own time.
Watson: Sherlock?
Sherlock: No. No.
Later, John walks across the room, avoiding all the splintered wood lying around, and bends down to pick up the pistol from the floor. Straightening up, he clears his throat softly and walks across to where Sherlock is sitting on the floor with his back against the wall. His legs are bent up in front of him and his wrists rest on the tops of his knees. His head is lowered and he is staring at the floor in front of him, breathing heavily with a distressed look on his face. Mycroft is standing and watching them from just outside the open door and the nearby screen is still showing pouring water. John stops a few paces in front of his friend.
Watson: Look, I know this is difficult and I know you’re being tortured, but you have got to keep it together.
Sherlock: This isn’t torture; this is vivisection. We’re experiencing science from the perspective of lab rats.
Sherlock: Soldiers?
Watson: Soldiers.
JIM: Tick-tock, tickets please!
Sherlock: Hey, sis, don’t mean to complain but this one’s empty. What happened? Did you run out of ideas?
EURUS: It’s not empty, Sherlock. You’ve still got the gun, haven’t you? I told you you’d need it, because only two can play the next game. Just two of you go on from here; your choice.  It’s make-your-mind-up time. Whose help do you need the most – John or Mycroft?
EURUS: It’s an elimination round. You choose one and kill the other. You have to choose family or friend. Mycroft or John Watson?
JIM: Tick-tick-tick-tick-tick-tick-tick.
MYCROFT: Eurus, enough!
EURUS : Not yet, I think.  But nearly. Remember, there’s a plane in the sky, and it’s not going to land.
MYCROFT: Well?
Sherlock: Well, what?
MYCROFT: We’re not actually going to discuss this, are we?
MYCROFT: I’m sorry, Doctor Watson. You’re a fine man in many respects.
MYCROFT: Make your goodbyes and shoot him.
MYCROFT: Shoot him!
Watson: What?
MYCROFT: Shoot Doctor Watson. There’s no question who has to continue from here. It’s us; you and me. Whatever lies ahead requires brainpower, Sherlock, not sentiment. Don’t prolong his agony; shoot him.
Watson: Do I get a say in this?
MYCROFT : Today, we are soldiers. Soldiers die for their country.
MYCROFT: I regret, Doctor Watson, that privilege is now yours.
Watson: Shit.
Watson: He’s right.
Watson: He is, in fact, right.
MYCROFT : Make it swift. No need to prolong his agony. Get it over with ...  ... and we can get to work.
MYCROFT: God!  I should have expected this.  Pathetic. You always were the slow one ...
MYCROFT: ... the idiot. That’s why I’ve always despised you. You shame us all. You shame the family name. Now, for once in your life, do the right thing.  Put this stupid little man out of all our misery.
MYCROFT: Shoot him.
Sherlock: Stop it.
MYCROFT: Look at him. What is he?
MYCROFT: Nothing more than a distraction; a little scrap of ordinariness for you to impress, to dazzle with your cleverness. You’ll find another.
Sherlock: Please, for God’s sake, just stop it.
MYCROFT: Why?
Sherlock: Because, on balance, even your Lady Bracknell was more convincing.
Sherlock: Ignore everything he just said. He’s being kind. He’s trying to make it easy for me to kill him.
Sherlock: Which is why this is going to be so much harder.
MYCROFT: You said you liked my Lady Bracknell.
Watson: Sherlock. Don’t.
MYCROFT : It’s not your decision, Doctor Watson.
MYCROFT: Not in the face, though, please. I’ve promised my brain to the Royal Society.
Sherlock: Where would you suggest?
MYCROFT: Well ...  ... I suppose there is a heart somewhere inside me.  I don’t imagine it’s much of a target but ...
MYCROFT : ... why don’t we try for that?
Watson: I won’t allow this.
MYCROFT: This is my fault.
MYCROFT: Moriarty.
Sherlock: Moriarty?
MYCROFT: Her Christmas treat: five minutes’ conversation with Jim Moriarty five years ago.
Sherlock: What did they discuss?
MYCROFT: Five minutes’ conversation ...
MYCROFT: ... unsupervised.
MYCROFT: Goodbye, brother mine. No flowers ...  ... by request.
EURUS: Jim Moriarty thought you’d make this choice. He was so excited.
JIM: And here we are, at the end of the line. Holmes killing Holmes.
JIM: This is where I get off.
Sherlock: Five minutes. It took her just five minutes to do all of this to us.
Sherlock: Well, not on my watch.
EURUS: What are you doing?
Sherlock: A moment ago, a brave man asked to be remembered.
Sherlock: I’m remembering the governor.
Sherlock: Ten ...
EURUS: No, no, Sherlock.
Sherlock: Nine ...
Sherlock: Eight ...
EURUS: You can’t!
Sherlock: Seven ...
EURUS : You don’t know about Redbeard yet.
Sherlock: Six ...
EURUS : Sherlock!
Sherlock: Five ...
EURUS : Sherlock, stop that at once!
Sherlock: Four ...
Sherlock: Three ...
Sherlock: Two ...
Very brief flashbacks of young Sherlock running across the meadow, then a close-up of the gravestone of Nemo Holmes and its impossible dates, then a fuzzy out-of-focus shot of something round and dark blue, then of young Sherlock sitting in the graveyard reading a book, then of Redbeard barking and running through the water at the beach, and young Sherlock running towards him while his little sister stands nearby and watches. Fade to black.
GIRL’s VOICE : Hello?
GIRL’s VOICE : Hello? Are you still there?
Sherlock: Yes. Yeah; no, I’m-I’m still here. I’m here.
GIRL : You went away. You said you’d help me and you went away.
Sherlock: Yes, I know. Well, I’m sorry about that. We-we-we must have got cut off. Um ...
Sherlock: How-how-how long was I away?
GIRL: Hours. Hours and hours. Why don’t grown-ups tell the truth?
Sherlock: No, I-I am telling the truth. You can trust me.
GIRL: Where did you go?
Sherlock: I’m not completely sure.
Sherlock: Um, now, I tell you what. You-you’ve got to be really, really brave for me.
Sherlock: Can you go to the front of the plane? Can you do that?
GIRL: The front?
Sherlock: Yes.
Sherlock: That’s right; the front.
GIRL: You mean where the driver is?
Sherlock: Yes, that’s it.
GIRL: Okay.  I’m going.
Sherlock: Are you there yet?
Watson: Yeah, I’m here.
Sherlock: John!
Watson: Yeah.
Sherlock: Where are you?
Watson: I don’t know. I’ve just woken up. Where are you?
Sherlock: I’m in another cell. I just spoke to the girl on the plane again. We’ve been out for hours.
Watson: What, she’s still up there?
Sherlock: Yes.  The plane will keep flying until it runs out of fuel.
Sherlock: Is Mycroft with you?
Watson: I have no idea. I can hardly see anything.  Mycroft? Mycroft?
Sherlock: Are you okay?
Watson: Yeah.
Sherlock: All right. Well, just keep exploring. Tell me anything you can about where you are.
Watson: The walls are ...  ... rough. They’re rock, I guess.
Sherlock: What are you standing on?
Watson: Uh, stone, I think. But listen: there’s about two feet of water.
Watson: Chains.  Yeah, my feet are chained up. I can feel something.
Watson: Bones, Sherlock.
Watson: There are bones in here.
Sherlock: What kind of bones?
Watson: Uh, I dunno. S-small.
Sherlock: Redbeard.
GIRL’s VOICE : Who’s Redbeard?
Sherlock: Oh, hello. Are you at the front of the plane now?
GIRL : Yeah. I still can’t wake the driver up.
Sherlock: That’s all right. What can you see now?
GIRL : I can see a river.  And there’s-there’s-there’s a big wheel.
Sherlock: All right. Well, you and I are going to have to drive this plane together.  Just you and me.
GIRL : We are?
Sherlock: Yeah, there’s nothing to it. We just need to get in touch with some people on the ground.
Sherlock: Now, um, can you see anything that looks like a radio?
GIRL: No.
Sherlock: That’s all right. Well, we ... keep looking. We’ve got plenty of time.
Sherlock: What’s wrong?
GIRL: The whole plane’s shaking.
Sherlock: It’s just turbulence. It’s nothing to worry about.
GIRL: My ears hurt.
Sherlock: Does the river look like it’s getting closer?
GIRL: A-a little bit.
Sherlock: All right, then. That means you’re nearly home.
Watson: Sherlock?
Watson: I’m in a well. That’s where I am; I’m in the bottom of a well.
Sherlock: Why would there be a well in Sherrinford?
Sherlock: Why is there a draught?
Sherlock: Walls don’t contract after you’ve painted them.
Sherlock: Not real ones.
Sherlock: I’m home. Musgrave Hall.
EURUS : Me and Jim Moriarty, we got on like a house on fire ...
EURUS: ... which reminded me of home.
Sherlock: Yeah, it’s just an old building. I don’t care. The plane; tell me about the plane NOW!
EURUS : Sweet Jim. He was never very interested in being alive, especially if he could make more trouble being dead.
Sherlock: Yeah, still not interested. The plane!
EURUS: You knew he’d take his revenge. His revenge apparently is me.
Sherlock: Eurus, let me speak to the little girl on the plane and I’ll play any game you like.
EURUS : First find Redbeard.
EURUS: I’m letting the water in now. You don’t want me to drown another one of your pets, do you? At long last, Sherlock Holmes, it’s time to solve the Musgrave ritual.
EURUS: Your very first case! And the final problem.  Oh. Bye-bye.
Watson: Sherlock?
EURUS’ VOICE: ♪ I that am lost / Oh, who will find me / Deep down below ...
Watson: Sherlock!
EURUS’ VOICE: ♪ The old beech tree?
EURUS’ VOICE: ♪ Help succour me now ...
Sherlock: John.
EURUS’ VOICE: ♪ The East winds blow ...
Sherlock: John.  John? Can you hear me? John!
EURUS’ VOICE: ♪ Sixteen by six, brother, and under we go ...
GIRL: Help me! Help me, please!
Watson: Sherlock!
EURUS’ VOICE: ♪ Be not afraid ...
Sherlock: John.
Watson: Yeah, it’s flooding. The well is flooding.
Sherlock: Try as long as possible not to drown.
Watson: What?
Sherlock: I’m going to find you. I am finding you!
Watson: Well, hurry up, please, because I don’t have long!
GIRL: It’s leaning over, the whole plane!
(Sherlock glances behind him to the door, then turns towards the screen again and claps his hand over his mouth, desperately trying to work out who to try and save first. In the well, John turns and tries to get handholds on the rocks lining it in an attempt to hold himself above the rising water. He lifts his left leg as high as it will go to try to climb up the wall a little but the chain tugs at his foot – or his fingers slide off the slippery stones – and he falls backwards and into the water with a loud cry.
In the plane the girl stares in terror out of the windscreen.
Sherlock turns and runs out into the hall as his sister continues to sing.)
Sherlock: Eurus, you said the answer’s in the song ...
Sherlock: ... but I went through the song line by line all those years ago ...
Sherlock: ... and I found nothing. I couldn’t find anything. And there-there was a beech tree in the grounds and I dug.
Sherlock: I dug and dug and dug and dug. Sixteen feet by six; sixteen yards; sixteen metres – and I found nothing. No-one.
Watson: Sherlock?
EURUS : It was a clever little puzzle, wasn’t it? So why couldn’t you work it out, Sherlock?
Watson: Sherlock? There’s something you need to know.
EURUS: Emotional context. And he-e-e-e-re it comes.
Watson: Sherlock?  The bones I found.
Sherlock: Yes? They’re dogs’ bones. That’s Redbeard.
Watson: Mycroft’s been lying to you; to both of us.
Watson: They’re not dogs’ bones.
EURUS: Remember Daddy’s allergy? What was he allergic to?
EURUS: What would he never let you have all those times you begged? Well, he’d never let you have a dog.
YOUNG SHERLOCK’s VOICE : Come on, Redbeard!
ADULT EURUS : What a funny little memory, Sherlock.
ADULT EURUS : You were upset ...
ADULT EURUS : ... so you told yourself a better story.
ADULT EURUS : ... but we never had a dog.
(Eurus runs across in front of Redbeard, briefly obscuring him from our view. As she trots away, the Irish setter has gone. In its place a young boy is kneeling on the beach. The same age as young Sherlock, he has red hair and he is wearing a thick checked shirt and has the purple bandana tied around his neck. He is wearing a black plastic eyepatch over one eye. He stands up, wielding his own plastic sword. Young Sherlock turns to look at him. As young Mycroft continues trying to skim pebbles on the stepping stones some distance away, the red-headed boy runs towards Sherlock, who turns and trots away across the beach with the other boy following him. Little Eurus turns to watch them, and the red-headed boy stops and turns back to her. They look at each other for a long moment. There is no friendliness in their expressions.
In the well, John lifts what he’s holding in both hands. It’s a small human skull.
In the house, Sherlock stares downwards towards the floor in front of him.)
Sherlock: Victor.
EURUS : Now it’s coming.
Sherlock: Victor Trevor.
Sherlock: We played pirates. I was Yellowbeard and he was ...
Sherlock: ... he was Redbeard.
EURUS: You were inseparable. But I wanted to play too.
Sherlock: Oh. Oh God.
Sherlock: What ...  ... what did you do?
EURUS : ♪ I that am lost / Oh, who will find me / Deep down below / The old beech tree? ♪
VICTOR: Please let me out! Please, someone help me! Please.
(The camera pulls upwards, leaving him lost and abandoned at the bottom of the well.
In the house, adult Sherlock gazes downwards, lost in grief.
Young Sherlock walks across the meadow, disconsolate at the loss of his friend.
Adult Sherlock hears his younger self.)
YOUNG Sherlock: Come on, Redbeard!
(Lights seem to flicker across adult Sherlock’s face.
Young Sherlock continues searching in the meadow, his face anguished.
Adult Sherlock stands in the hall, surrounded by darkness and lost in memories.
Young Sherlock now seems to be in the same position, surrounded by darkness, his face sad.
Adult Sherlock gazes tearfully across the hall.
Young Sherlock, tears pouring down his face, softly speaks the name of his best friend, but it’s his adult voice that we hear.)
SHERLOCK’s VOICE : Victor.
EURUS : Deep waters, Sherlock, all your life.
EURUS : In all your dreams.
EURUS : Deep waters.
Sherlock: You killed him.
(Dark rippling water overlays his face and for a moment a merged image of adult and young Sherlock stares sadly across the hall with tears on his face.
Adult Sherlock lifts his head, looking towards the screen.)
Sherlock: You killed my best friend.
EURUS : I never had a best friend. I had no-one.
(Sherlock raises his head towards the ceiling.
In the well, John struggles to keep his footing, the water now up to the top of his chest as more pours down.
Sherlock gazes upwards, his face anguished. He closes his eyes.
Flashback to little Eurus running around on the beach, flying her toy aeroplane beside her. Adult Sherlock stands nearby watching her. Smiling, she runs around him with her plane. She looks up at him.)
YOUNG EURUS : Play with me, Sherlock! Play with me!
ADULT EURUS : No-one.
(In the hall, adult Sherlock lowers his head, his eyes still closed.
Young Sherlock runs across the graveyard towards the house. The camera pans across the gravestone of Nemo Holmes and its impossible dates.)
EURUS : No-one.
(The camera focuses in on the gravestone and writing overlays the top line.
NEMO
n.
Latin - no one, nobody
In the hall, Sherlock bites his lip and raises his head, looking towards the screen with determination.)
Sherlock: Okay. Okay, let’s play.
GIRL : Hello? Are you there?
Sherlock: Need your help. I’m trying to solve a puzzle.
GIRL : But what about the plane?
Sherlock: Well, the puzzle will save the plane.
Sherlock: The wrong dates. She used the wrong dates on the gravestones as the key to the cipher ...  ... and the cipher was the song.
Watson: Is this strictly relevant?
Sherlock: Yes, it is. I’ll be with you in a minute.
GIRL : The lights are getting closer.
Sherlock: Hush, now. Working.
(The words of Eurus’ song appear in front of his eyes. Two verses side by side read
I that am lost, oh who will find me?
Deep down below the old beech tree
Help succour me now the east winds blow
Sixteen by six, brother, and under we go!
Without your love, he’ll be gone before
Save pity for strangers, show love the door.
My soul seek the shade of my willow’s bloom
Inside, brother mine -
Let Death make a room.
Two further verses are underneath but in much smaller print. According to this person on Tumblr, who may have a better quality recording than me, they read
Be not afraid to walk in the shade
Save one, save all, come try!
My steps - five by seven
Life is closer to Heaven
Look down, with dark gaze, from on high.
Before he was gone - right back over my ill
Who now will find him?
Why, nobody will
Doom shall I bring to him, I that am queen
Lost forever, nine by nineteen.
Sherlock: Let’s number the words of the song.
Sherlock: Then rearrange the numbered words to match the sequence on the gravestones.
(The words and numbers spin around in front of him, some of them stopping briefly in front of his eyes before spinning on. The sequences which stop read
1          3        4
I         am     lost
17       19
Help     me
28
brother
Sherlock’s head snaps up and he opens his eyes with a gasp. He looks at the verses and the numbered words in front of him and the majority of the letters and their accompanying numbers shatter and the fragments fall away to the ground. He breathes heavily, looking at the remaining words floating in the air, then reaches out and starts swiping each word out of the air in the correct order, saying each word as he removes it. )
Sherlock: I ... am ... lost ... Help ... me ... brother ... Save ... My ... Life ... Before ... my ... Doom.
Sherlock: I ... am ... Lost ... Without ... your ... love ... Save ... My ... soul ... seek ... my ... room.
Sherlock: Oh God.
(Grabbing the lantern he races back towards the house.
In the well, John stares upwards as the water continues to rise.
In the plane, the girl cries out panic-stricken.)
GIRL: We’re going to crash! I’m going to die!
(She screams.
John grunts with effort, his arms under the water and apparently tugging at the chains around his feet.
Sherlock races through the gateway beside the house, runs round the side to the front and then bursts through the front door, then runs up the stairs.)
Sherlock: I think it’s time you told me your real name.
GIRL : I’m not allowed to tell my name to strangers.
Sherlock: But I’m not a stranger, am I?
Sherlock: I’m your brother.
Sherlock: I’m here, Eurus.
(Still wearing the clothes she wore in Sherrinford, Eurus is sitting on the floor with her knees drawn up in front of her and her hands wrapped around them. Her eyes are closed.
The footage of the girl on the plane goes into fast reverse back through all the scenes we’ve seen of her until she’s back in her seat, looking uneasily out of the window. The footage rapidly reverses even further and slows down to the very first moment where, in reverse of what we first saw, we see a close-up of her eye closing.
Flashback of young Eurus running around the beach with her toy aeroplane.
In her bedroom, adult Eurus keeps her eyes closed and speaks with a child-like voice.)
EURUS: You’re playing with me, Sherlock. We’re playing the game.
Sherlock: The game, yes. I get it now.  The song was never a set of directions.
EURUS : I’m in the plane, and I’m going to crash.
EURUS : And you’re going to save me.
Sherlock: Look how brilliant you are. Your mind has created the perfect metaphor. You’re high above us, all alone in the sky, and you understand everything except how to land.  Now, I’m just an idiot, but I’m on the ground.  I can bring you home.
EURUS : No.
EURUS: No, no.  It’s too late now.
Sherlock: No it’s not. It’s not too late.
EURUS: Every time I close my eyes, I’m on the plane. I’m lost, lost in the sky and ... no-one can hear me.
Sherlock: Open your eyes. I’m here.
Sherlock: You’re not lost any more.
Sherlock: Now, you ... you just ... you just went the wrong way last time, that’s all.  This time, get it right.  Tell me how to save my friend.
(In the well, John groans with the effort of trying to keep his head above the water.
In the bedroom Sherlock pulls back a little.)
Sherlock: Eurus ...
Sherlock: Help me save John Watson.
(She stares at him, trembling and tearful as he gently strokes her hair.
In the well, John grimaces and then groans, tilting his chin up out of the water as he strains with the effort of trying to pull the chains free. Then a light shines down onto him from the top of the well and a rope is thrown down to him. Gasping with relief, he takes hold of it.)
someone was then going to climb down the rope with a bloody great set of bolt cutters and  John grabbed the rope because he now had some support to pull himself up just a little – i.e. to the full extent of the chains – and keep above the water until his rescuer arrived. Anyway, moving on ...]
Later, Eurus is being led away from the house by two police officers. She still looks tearful. Police cars and vans are parked all around and a helicopter’s rotors can be heard nearby. Some distance away, Sherlock watches her. John is beside him, wrapped in a grey blanket. Greg walks over to them.
LESTRADE: I just spoke to your brother.
Sherlock: How is he?
LESTRADE: He’s a bit shaken up, that’s all. She didn’t hurt him; she just locked him in her old cell.
Watson: What goes around comes around.
LESTRADE: Yeah. Give me a moment, boys.
Sherlock: Oh, um. Mycroft – make sure he’s looked after. He’s not as strong as he thinks he is.
LESTRADE : Yeah, I’ll take care of it.
Sherlock: Thanks, Greg.
(John, who has been huddling into his blanket, lifts his head and Greg turns back again and looks at him in surprise before walking away.
Eurus has been loaded into a reinforced cell inside one of the police vans. She sits on a side bench as a police officer closes the door.)
LESTRADE : The helicopter ready?
POLICE OFFICER: Mm-hm.
LESTRADE: Let’s move her, then.
POLICE OFFICER: Is that him, sir? Sherlock Holmes?
LESTRADE: Fan, are you?
POLICE OFFICER: Well, he’s a great man, sir.
LESTRADE: No, he’s better than that.  He’s a good one.
Watson: You okay?
Sherlock: I said I’d bring her home. I can’t, can I?
Watson: Well, you gave her what she was looking for: context.
Sherlock: Is that good?
Watson: It’s not good, it’s not bad. It’s ...
Watson: It is what it is.
MRS HOLMES : Alive?! For all these years?
MRS HOLMES : How is that even possible?!
MYCROFT: What Uncle Rudy began ...  ... I thought it best to continue.
MRS HOLMES : I’m not asking how you did it, idiot boy, I’m asking how could you?
MYCROFT: I was trying to be kind.
MRS Sherlock: Kind?!  Kind?  You told us that our daughter was dead.
MYCROFT: Better that than tell you what she had become.
MYCROFT: I’m sorry.
MR Sherlock: Whatever she became, whatever she is now, Mycroft ...
MR HOLMES : ... she remains our daughter.
MYCROFT: And my sister.
MRS Sherlock: Then you should have done better.
Sherlock: He did his best.
MRS Sherlock: Then he’s very limited.
MR Sherlock: Where is she?
MYCROFT: Back in Sherrinford; secure, this time.  People have died.
MYCROFT : Without doubt she will kill again if she has the opportunity. There’s no possibility she’ll ever be able to leave.
MR Sherlock: When can we see her?
(Mycroft looks at him.
At Sherrinford, Sherlock comes out of the lift on the upper level of the Control Room and trots down the stairs.)
MYCROFT : There’s no point.
MRS HOLMES : How dare you say that?
MYCROFT : She won’t talk. She won’t communicate with anyone in any way.
MYCROFT: She has passed beyond our view.
MYCROFT : There are no words that can reach her now.
(She turns to look at her other son.
At Sherrinford, Sherlock walks out of another lift.)
MRS HOLMES : Sherlock.
(In Mycroft’s office, Sherlock raises his head.
At Sherrinford, he walks along the long corridor towards the Secure Unit.
In the office, Mrs Holmes shrugs questioningly at Sherlock.)
MRS Sherlock: Well?
MRS HOLMES : You were always the grown-up.
MRS HOLMES : What do we do now?
(Sherlock turns his head away slightly, looking thoughtful.
At Sherrinford, the lift door at the front of Eurus’ cell slides open and Sherlock, having presumably left his coat upstairs, walks out. He walks a few paces forward, looking at his sister inside the glass-walled cell. Her face is turned away from him and she doesn’t react to the sound of his footsteps. He bends down and puts the holdall on the floor. Behind him the lift door closes and the green lights in the room turn white. Sitting on the seat at the side of the room, she still doesn’t react. Sherlock unzips the bag and then stands up holding his violin and bow. He plucks at the strings and Eurus blinks. Once he’s sure the violin is tuned properly, he lifts his bow and plays a simple tune. He stops at the end of the first phrase and lifts his bow a little, looking towards Eurus. She doesn’t respond or move in any way.
In the burnt-out living room of 221B Baker Street, Sherlock – in shirt and trousers – walks across the floor, stepping over the ruined books and debris. The sound of him playing the same tune in Eurus’ cell can be heard offscreen as he starts it again and this time continues the tune. In 221B he picks up a random item from the floor, then walks across to where the skull which is usually on the wall between the windows is lying on the burnt rug. John turns around from where he’s standing near the fireplace and holds up what he’s just found – the earphones which usually adorn the skull’s head. Sherlock lifts the skull so that John can put the earphones back onto it and then loop the cable over the top. Sherlock turns away with it and looks for somewhere to put it.
In the cell Sherlock continues playing. After a while, Eurus stands up and turns to face him. Sherlock stops playing, and the two of them look at each other for a long while.
In 221B Sherlock, still holding the skull and headphones, lifts his overturned chair with the other hand and sets it upright. As he gazes upwards, the violin starts up again offscreen.
A helicopter heads towards Sherrinford Island again and, in the cell, Sherlock plays on. Eurus stands silently, watching him with a trace of interest on her face.
In 221B Sherlock picks up one of the dining chairs and sets it on its feet. John is over near the right-hand window.
Sherlock gets out of the helicopter again on the beach at Sherrinford with his holdall in one hand. We start to realise that he is making repeated visits to play to his sister.
In the cell, while he continues to play, Eurus picks up her own violin and bow and walks towards the glass wall. Sherlock stops in mid-phrase. She puts the violin to her chin. Sherlock watches her, and she begins to play the same piece from the beginning. The sound from her violin is richer – either she’s a better player or she has her Strad back. Or possibly it’s a bit of both because she plays the first phrase with more flair than her brother, running the notes together differently at one point. Sherlock blinks rapidly as she ends the phrase and stops, lowering her bow. He lifts his own bow and plays the phrase again, still using his own interpretation of the notes.
While the music continues offscreen, John is standing in his own living room sorting through his mail. He stops when he gets to a white padded envelope sent by Special Delivery.
Shortly afterwards he walks aimlessly around the room while he speaks into his phone.)
Watson: Uh, yeah, I-I think you’d better get round here.
(In his other hand he is holding what he found in the envelope. Inside a clear plastic wallet is a white DVD. Handwritten on the disc are the words “MISS YOU”.
In the cell, Eurus closes her eyes and begins to play the tune again but this time Sherlock joins in with a counterpart. They stand either side of the glass, harmonising with each other.
At John’s home, the disc slides into the DVD player. Sherlock has now arrived and stands near the sofa, still wearing his coat, while John sits down. They look at each other for a moment, then Sherlock turns away to look towards the TV while John lifts the remote control and starts the playback. Mary’s face smiles at them from the screen. Sherlock blinks and John stares at the TV in surprise, his mouth falling open a little.)
MARY: P.S.
MARY : I know you two; and if I’m gone, I know what you could become.
MARY : ... because I know who you really are.
MARY : A junkie who solves crimes to get high ...
(In the flashback Sherlock looks down at the body and wrinkles his nose a little as he sniffs.
Flashback to our very first sight of John, jolting up in bed in his lonely bedsit after his latest nightmare.)
MARY : ... and the doctor who never came home from the war.
(Sherlock walks to the door of the Secure Unit and swipes his card through the reader.
In the cell, the siblings’ duet becomes more complicated and intricate.)
MARY : Well, you listen to me: who you really are, it doesn’t matter.
MARY : It’s all about the legend, the stories, the adventures.
(At Sherrinford, Sherlock comes out of the lift and walks across the green-lit room towards where his sister is sitting on the seat with her back to the room.
The Holmes siblings face each other through the glass, playing together beautifully.
In 221B, Mrs Hudson comes through the door and looks across the room. While the workmen tidy up and John stands at the fireplace, Sherlock types onto his phone “You know where to find me.” and adds underneath “SH”.)
MARY : There is a last refuge for the desperate, the unloved, the persecuted.
(Again Sherlock walks along the corridor towards the Secure Unit.
In the cell, Eurus and Sherlock play on.)
MARY : There is a final court of appeal for everyone.
(In 221B, most of the burnt debris has been removed and workmen are now redecorating. Our boys have decided to restore the flat exactly as it was, and the wallpaper on the fireplace wall is the same as it was before. Sherlock, wearing his camel dressing gown, is standing facing the fireplace. At the sofa wall, John sprays a circle of yellow paint onto the wallpaper and then adds two dots inside near the top of the circle. He turns round and we see that the wallpaper on that wall is also the same as it was before and John has now added the smiley face to it. He looks across expectantly towards Sherlock and then walks out of the way. Sherlock, now facing into the room, raises his long-muzzled pistol, spins the chamber and then flicks it into place, then aims towards the spray-painted face and fires twice. He smiles, then lifts the muzzle and blows across the top.
The siblings’ tune resolves into the familiar “Pursuit” music, now played offscreen by an ensemble of stringed instruments.
Sherlock, now wearing his blue dressing gown, stabs his knife down into an open letter on the mantelpiece as John stands beside him holding the piece of paper in position. They turn as Mrs Hudson comes into the room and looks at them in exasperation. The room is now fully restored to its former glory and all the familiar items have either been repaired or replaced with identical copies.
Sherlock and Eurus play on. Without stopping, he raises his eyes to hers and she looks back at him. For the first time, there is emotion in her eyes as she gazes at her brother. She smiles just a little and they continue their duet.
In 221B a montage of scenes rolls out. Even though there is no segue between them, they clearly take place over a period of time. Sherlock, in his camel dressing gown, walks around behind the client chair. Sitting in the chair is an old-fashioned ventriloquist’s dummy dressed in a black and red jacket with a white shirt and black bowtie. Its operator seems to be crouched behind the chair, as evidenced by a black-sleeved arm poking round from the back of the chair and disappearing into the dummy’s back. John walks through the living room door wearing his jacket and carrying his briefcase. He frowns briefly at the scene as he goes across the room. Sitting down in his chair he looks up at a blackboard set up on an easel in front of the fireplace and frowns at the ‘dancing men’ figures chalked on it .)
MARY : When life gets too strange, too impossible ...
)
MARY : ... too frightening, there is always one last hope.
MARY : When all else fails ...
MARY : ... there are two men sitting arguing in a scruffy flat ...
Sherlock: Oh, there’s Daddy!
(The music resolves into a fuller, slower and even more orchestral version of “Pursuit”.
Sherlock waves across the room and then walks forward to hand Rosie down to John, who is kneeling on the floor and wearing a pale grey shirt. John smiles in delight as he takes hold of his daughter and kisses her cheek.)
MARY : ... like they’ve always been there ...
MARY : ... and they always will.
MARY : The best and wisest men I have ever known.
MARY : My Baker Street boys.
MARY: Sherlock Holmes and Doctor Watson.